Like I said, it's an effective legacy. All right, very good. Let's get going. Good morning, everybody. This is May 16th, Wednesday, 2018, Portland City Hall. We're all here for the Portland City Council AM session. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a light goes on, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping keep your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. So first up is communications. Communications.
 Item 460, a request of John Hollister to address council regarding housing crisis for people of color, the color of law. He called this morning and is not able to make it. I'm sorry to hear that. Next individual, please. 461, request of Mycelis Doyle to address council regarding how the council and city of Portland can better support Portland public schools. They are also not able to make it. All right. Thank you.
 Next person, please. 462, request of Lightning Super Creativity Independent Watchdog to address council to declare state of emergency pertaining to homeless children. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity Watchdog. One of the issues I have is on just how many homeless children we have out through Oregon, Portland.
 in all different areas throughout the neighborhoods. And the reality is that I don't think we're getting the real data, rather than actual numbers on how serious this is. In my opinion, Governor Brown, and when you decide to come into Portland, I'd love to have a meeting with you. You're failing miserably. You're failing miserably pertaining to the homeless children. And I want to see real data, updated data, real numbers, data,
 that you're getting from the Oregon Department of Education, and yet that doesn't show the real picture of what's happening. Beaverton, 1,400. Reynolds, 1,350. Portland, 1,300. Medford, 1,200. We're talking thousands and thousands of homeless children, students, not getting into housing, being put into hotels, being put into shelters, housing.
 Young, developing minds having stress and trauma put upon them because they can't go to school with their friends. And to you, Governor Brown, to not address this issue as a state of emergency, I'm asking you to step down as governor.
 I do not want to see you get re-elected. I do not want to see you as governor. I want a governor in there that looks at this problem and says, this is a state of emergency for the children. Children into housing first, and we will come up with the money. You have failed the homeless children in Oregon, Governor Brown, and I am asking you to step down. Thank you. Thank you. Next individual, please. Thank you.
 463 request of Brad Perkins to address council regarding Sullivan's Gulch Trail Cascadia high-speed rail good morning mr. Perkins good morning council and congratulations Commissioner fish for last night's victory thank you very much I look forward to your next four years of leadership
 What I'm here to talk about mainly is the Sullivan-Skulls Trail, which in the future will be the Rose Corridor to Gorge Trail. What we're talking about here is new corridors. High speed rail will be a subject that I'll bring up later, but the issue I want to be concerned about right now is the trail.
 As you know, 15 neighborhoods in northeast and southeast Portland have already committed their support over the years. In 2012, three of you voted on the resolution to continue the work on finding funding and developing this was passed by you. And since then, we've got a bike town program that took $2 million of our money.
 But there was $10 million that was presented from Nike to help make that program. We're talking about the same way, same model to do this type of trail where we have a private-public partnership. We can form a 501c3 and get half the money for this thing, okay, because there's the opportunity of development along this trail, affordable housing as well as market rate housing. You already see six projects going on right now, okay? But how do we get there?
 We get there by a will to do it. And we do not have that at PBOT right now. And hopefully with the command change with Leah Treat and also Mike Abadi at Parks, we can maybe look at another way of, like I said, funding this and setting up a priority to make this thing happen.
 Now, if we're going to do congestion pricing, we've got to be thinking about other corridors along the I-5 and I-84. You've got the North Willamette Greenway and you've got this that will eventually go all the way out to Multnomah Falls.
 This is the type of planning that we should be thinking about when we talk about congestion pricing in order to offer another alternative to get people to work or wherever they're going safely. Let me just emphasize that point. And this is my main topic right now. And the reason why this needs to happen now is they're trying to build or plan a bridge over I-84. Now, you can't build a bridge halfway. I learned that in architecture.
 years ago. You can't build it halfway. So what's needed is a safe corridor under two major highways, that being Grand Avenue and MLK. It needs to go under and not through the intersection there on Lloyd Boulevard. It's getting set up
 to be major accidents. So take that $5 million that's estimated to go along that corridor and redirect it towards this under the bridges corridor instead. And I've in that letter have lined out how we can look at the $3 million that's already thought about using for
 Lloyd Boulevard and Multnomah Street to go towards this project. And one last thing I want to emphasize is that there is property, private property and city-owned property, along there that, especially city-owned property, that can also be used, if that property was sold, to go directly towards this trail. What I'm trying to do is think private-public partnership. And that's the way we want to do it. Thank you, Mr. Perkins. Privately push it through. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Next individual, please.
 464, request of Jackson McKibbin to address the council regarding metro area issues.
 Good morning. Good morning. How are you guys? Great, thank you. How are you? Good. Good. This is my first time speaking here. Welcome. Glad to have you. I've lived in Portland since October of 2016. And I'm sorry, Jackson, could you just identify yourself for the record again? Oh, yeah. This is Jackson McKibbin. Thanks. Sorry. Thanks. So I've lived here since October of 2016. I've definitely noticed a couple of issues that really stand out.
 I think the homeless is really out of hand, and I think that they need more opportunities to show themselves in a positive light for the people that want to make changes. I lived in my car for over a year, and I definitely started to understand how you are discriminated when you do have different sleeping arrangements from most of the population.
 I've talked to a lot of them and they say basically they don't have the opportunities in place. A lot of people don't want to hire them. They can't get clean. They can't go to work. I think two positive solutions would be to pay them to pick up the trash. Obviously it's kind of an integrity gap to just trust someone to go out and not write a bunch of trash cans and lie about it. So maybe someone could watch them do it.
 and also start to paint over all the graffiti. I do find graffiti expressive, and it's not completely negative, but I do think as far as Portland going through a pretty heavy gentrification process and they're trying to clean up the streets and stuff, I do think that that would be productive and also would show, it would clearly separate the people that want to make changes and want to be a productive member of society and the people that do just want to take handouts.
 So I think that would be really good to do. I've also just noticed that very like, how unsafe people drive out here, like under the speed limits, I mean it's literally like people don't have their five senses when they're behind the wheel of a car and it's very,
 It's very intimidating sometimes, and it's kind of uncomfortable. I feel like you will be heavily ticketed for going five over the speed limit, but when someone's going 10 to 15 miles per hour under the speed limit, and when they won't let you over, when they sit in your blind spot, things like this need to be addressed. I just think that we're in such a day and age of...
 segregation, and we just need to all kind of work together because we're all just people trying to make money, trying to be safe, trying to come home to our families, and we just need to help each other as American people. And I think that whether we're in a suit, whether we sleep on the street, wherever we are, we're all American people, and we need to just come together and help each other. So that's all I have. Thank you. Good message. Thank you, sir, for being here. Appreciate it.
 That completes communications. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? I've had no requests today. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Next item is...
 Well, by the time people show up and we get moving, we'll be at 945, so I don't think anybody will argue. Next item is a time-certain item, number 465. Carla, read it slowly so it takes at least another 30 seconds. Okay. Amend fee schedules for building electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and land use services.
 Oh, sorry, that was the wrong one. Oh, that's the right one. Sorry. Which one were you reading, Carla? Were you reading 465? Yes, but I read it again. Look at that. It's time. It's 945. Good. Commissioner Udaly.
 Oh, I'm sorry. I was told I was going to call on Commissioner Udaly. Okay. Hold on. This is the amending of the fee schedules. I was mesmerized by Carla's hypnotic reading of the title. Carla, Dan and I didn't actually hear the reading of the title. Could you do that again, please? All righty. So BDS resets fees every year to achieve cost recovery. I am on the right item, right? Yes, correct. Okay.
 The only area where fees are not currently covering costs is land use services, where we're starting to see a slowdown in the pre-development work that the land use services team does. These fees have been reviewed by the Development Review Advisory Committee. Kyle O'Brien and Ross Carone are here from BDS to talk through the details. All righty. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Morning, Council. My name is Ross Carone. I'm with the Bureau of Development Services. I'm sitting in for Elshad Hajiv, who is our...
 our Business Operations and Finance Services Division Manager. As Commissioner Udeli already said, we're here to speak to Council about proposed fee changes for the 2018-2019 fiscal year.
 As I believe everyone already knows, our Bureau is 99% funded through fees associated with land use reviews, building permits, and our enforcement program. Every year, BDS presents its fee changes to Council. This year, there are minimal changes to the fee schedule. And Kyle O'Brien, our finance manager, is here to speak to the details of these proposed changes. Thank you, Russ. Thank you, Russ.
 I'll just start with a couple of fee increases. The first one is to our field issuance remodel program. This is a niche program based on an hourly rate, and we're proposing to increase the hourly rate by $13 an hour from $177 an hour to $190 an hour for this program. This program is currently operating below cost recovery, so this increase is meant to bring it closer to cost recovery.
 The second increase we have needs a little bit of background. We have the hearings officer fees, which currently sit with the auditor's office, and we're this year moving those to BDS fee schedule and then increasing them by 5%. The reason we're moving them is because we currently collect the fees and then send money to the auditor's office through IA every year, but we keep the fees themselves.
 So it makes more sense for us to keep them on our schedule. And finally, we have a few fees for new reviews. These new reviews are associated with forthcoming legislation, including the Central City 2035 Plan District and the Comp Plan Early Implementation Package. These are new land use reviews. The new fees are Central City Master Plan Review,
 Plan Development Bonus Review, Plan Development Bonus Review New or Major Amendment, Transportation Demand Management Review, Transportation Impact Analysis Campus. Those are all new fees? Those are all new fees associated with new reviews. We also have some minor language changes on the hearings officer schedule to bring it to mirror our land use fee schedule. And also to our...
 to some of our other schedules to comply with Oregon Building Codes Division administrative rules. Finally, as part of our ordinance, we have Exhibit I, which is a...
 seven projects and shows the cumulative impact of fees across all development bureaus on those seven projects to allow council and the mayor to evaluate the fee changes overall across all bureaus. This is meant to make it easier to see the changes and also bring these fee changes to council in a more holistic way.
 If you have any questions on other bureaus' fees, I would respectfully ask that you address the other bureaus when they present their fee change ordinances. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? This is one question. I was intrigued by the bonus review, the new bonus review. So that would entail BDS confirming that a project complies with the various bonuses it's seeking to use. Is that right? Yes.
 I will have to get back to you on exactly what services are performed under that review. I can go talk to our land use division manager and get you that information. Okay. Very good. Public testimony? Yes. One person signed up. Chuck Crockett. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, sir. Good morning.
 My testimony against the assessment of fees and against the process of what you guys have been doing are based on the fact that, I mean, there are no checks and balances to what you guys do. You guys kind of do whatever you want, and amending these fees in the public has no say-so. And the public of the low-income and the African-American community, we have no say-so, and they don't get to –
 review any of these things or do anything about what may happen as a negative effect to what your processes will bring. So I would have to basically deny that you guys should even proceed in any way, shape, or form until you have a system set up where low-income and African-American communities can actually review and speak against it if they disagree with you and actually stop this process. Yes.
 And I know you guys aren't probably a fan of that because you're sitting there high and mighty, but I've emailed you, Ted Wheeler, I've emailed all of you actually to try to actually get you guys to implement this system so that people that are negatively affected and everybody from every community is actually speaking, actually has power in the decisions of what is going on with their government. And you guys aren't just allowed to run away and do whatever you want, because in your own mind you may think it's good and what someone tells you,
 But there's no checks and balances to what you guys are doing coming from the community itself. I know you guys are elected officials, but under the circumstances you're elected, that's not even fair. The 14th Amendment right of a lot of people are being violated from the way that the system is set up. So I think you guys should halt what you're doing. Go review the 14th Amendment.
 Really implement these systems so that it is being fair what people are receiving from the government and not just paying money and being fees assessed from different parts of the government. You guys already talked behind closed doors. You guys could have already agreed to have these fees passed through and I know that.
 So I'm going to sit here and testify for the community, for the low-income and African-American community, and just everybody in general, all communities, that you guys need to halt what you're doing, and you need to set up review systems for the public to completely challenge decisions that you make so that if they catch something that you don't catch or if they don't agree, ask the public that they can stop you and you're just not doing whatever you want. Very good. Thank you, sir.
 Mayor? Commissioner Udailey. Yeah, I'd just like to briefly respond to that. BDS, as was mentioned, is largely funded by permit fees. We have an obligation to recover the costs of our services from developers, and this policy was reviewed by our Development Review Advisory Committee, which includes members who represent BDS.
 minority construction contractors and low-income housing developers as well as neighborhoods. It's not an invitation to come back. You gave your testimony. I really don't care. You guys have a police chief that's a known, that was part of a sex trafficking case. All right. Okay. Okay. Thank you for your testimony. Bye-bye. Thank you. Listen, she has been trying to respond to your – I thought she gave good testimony. She's responding, and now you're going off on another tangent. Yeah.
 Anyhow, I'd like to thank the BDS finance team and the DRAC for their work on this, and we will vote on it, I guess, this week. Not today, yes. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Could you please turn off the music? Thank you. It's disruptive. So we do not yet have...
 We have a time certain. Do we have anybody here from Parks and Recreation for item 473 yet? I don't know. Are our invited guests here? Let's see. Do we have anybody here from the Bureau of Transportation for item 474 yet? Come on up. Please read 474 next. Authorized payment.
 To LTK Consulting Services, Inc., for $6,348 for operator seat base modification. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I'll turn it over to Catherine Levine of the Bureau of Transportation. Good morning. Good to be here, sir. Thank you. Is your mic on? I just turned it on. Oh, great. Thank you. Thank you. All right.
 So the ordinance before you today would authorize payment to a vendor that provided service to us. And in short, at a staff level, we used an incorrect procurement process. We followed goods and services when we should have been following.
 professional, technical, and expert services. So we will correct that in the future and follow the correct path. But in order to pay the consultant for the work that was done, which is $6,348, we're bringing the ordinance to council. It's my understanding that the chief procurement officer does not have authority to do this without your approval. Okay. Thank you.
 Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Public testimony on this particular matter? Oh, Carla's not here. One moment. Sorry, Carla. On 474, is there any public testimony? Oh, nobody's. I'm looking at my sign-up sheet. Nobody signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Fritz. Thank you for the transparent explanation. Mistakes do happen. It does seem reasonable to pay the people who have done the job. Aye. Thank you. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 475, please. Second reading. Vacate portions of Southwest Hall Street, Southwest Lincoln Street, Southwest Grant Street, and Southwest Sherman Street.
 at Southwest NATO Parkway subject to certain conditions and reservations. So this is a second reading. We have already had this read. A presentation has been given. Testimony has been taken. Any further discussion? Please call the roll, Carla. Solzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Do we have anybody here for item 476?
 How about four? I don't want to go without Nick on that one. Could you read 479, please? Okay.
 ratify a letter of agreement with the District Council of Trade Unions to authorize a 4% wage increase to each step of the Water Bureau Operating Engineer 3 classification. Colleagues, this is going to be referred back to my office. So we'll take 479 off the agenda. Thank you.
 And let's see, going back. We are going to take a seven-minute recess. We will reconvene at five minutes past ten for the time certain. Okay, we're on the time certain. All right, this is item 466. 666.
 All right, we are back in session. Could you please read item 466, Carla? Authorize a class action settlement agreement related to the installation and remediation of curb ramps in pedestrian right-of-way along city streets. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Before us this morning is a legal settlement.
 that will dramatically accelerate the Portland Bureau of Transportation's efforts to come into compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. It is also a way for us to recognize our legal obligation to provide more curb ramps on our sidewalks. We have nearly 40,000 street corners in the city of Portland, and each one represents an opportunity. If built with the correct curb ramps, each corner represents a chance for our city
 to provide safe and accessible mobility for all Portlanders, regardless of whether they are living with a disability or not. For many years now, we have been working to provide these opportunities. Each year, the Bureau of Transportation has been building hundreds of curb ramps to ADA standards. But the fact remains that we have not been building them fast enough. Thanks to this settlement, we will double the number of curb ramps we build each year.
 and have reached the solution without having to engage in costly and lengthy litigation. And that's good for the city, and that is good for all Portlanders, because instead of being in court, we're going to be out there on the streets building curb ramps. In a moment, we'll hear from Director Leah Treat, and after that, we will hear from Eva Hunziker of the Bureau of Transportation, who will walk us through the settlement.
 We also have Ken McGare from the city attorney's office here to answer any questions, and Nicole Cherone, our disability program coordinator with the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and she has some comments as well. We will then ask the claimants and the Civil Rights Education and Enforcement Center, otherwise known as CREAC, to address counsel, and after that we can turn it over to general testimony. So I'll turn it over now to Director CREAC.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman and the rest of the council. So good morning. I'm glad that we're here today to hopefully approve the settlement. This is really important for many reasons, and one of them is the city's policy commitment to equity. And equity is something that I'm really passionate about. It's one of the reasons that I love working for the city. So this settlement is incredibly meaningful to me
 And, you know, in the realm of transportation, equity can take on many meanings, and one of them is access. And that's what we're talking about today, is access to our system for all users. We launched a Vision Zero initiative in 2015 to eliminate traffic fatalities on our roads. And as part of this, we have focused on investments and programs in communities that have been historically underserved in the city. And thanks to those commitments and investments,
 Portlanders are safer to our investments. And we've also committed to traffic enforcement without racial profiling. This is a significant piece of equity work that we're doing at the Bureau as well. I think we are one of the few Vision Zero cities in the country that has made this pledge, if not the only one.
 And internally, we're building up our equity initiatives. In 2016, we hired an equity and inclusion manager. And last year, we completed our five-year racial equity plan, and we've been working on its implementation. We have an active equity committee that is helping to lead our internal conversations about achieving transportation equity across our many projects and programs. And thanks to these initiatives, we have made significant progress in integrating equity into everything that we do.
 But there's an area where we haven't done as well. We need to be building more curb ramps, and we need to be doing it in a more timely fashion. And when you compare a curb ramp to something like a bridge or a streetcar, it seems like a humble piece of infrastructure, but it isn't. Make no mistake, curb ramps are critical for people with disabilities, and that's why we're here today.
 We're taking a major step forward in providing people with disabilities with the mobility and connection that they need and deserve. And it's our obligation to provide that. In reaching the settlement with Creek, the city has pledged to build and upgrade 18,000 curb ramps over the next 12 years. That comes to about 1,500 ramps a year, and it's double the number that we have been building and upgrading in the past.
 I believe this is a profound victory for our disability community and for all of Portland. Thanks to this settlement, we're going to be a more mobile, more connected, and more equitable city for all Portlanders. Now I'll turn it over to Eva Hunsinger, who's going to walk you through a slide deck with the proposed settlement. Thank you, Director Treat. Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler. Morning. I'm Eva Hunsinger, and I'm lucky to serve as a supervising engineer with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Thank you.
 I'm happy to present this settlement for your consideration. As a matter of fact, I'm truly honored. This settlement was the work of many hands, and with me are some of our key partners. Jeremy Patton, our PBOT Business Services Group Manager, Deputy City Attorney Ken McGare, Nicole Cherone from the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Also here are Randy Stenquist from RISC, Scott Motey and Linda Law from the Attorney's Office.
 all of which have provided extraordinary service to get us to this point. To begin, I'd like to provide you with a brief overview of the anatomy of a curb ramp. Ensuring that curb ramps meet the needs of all users of our sidewalks and streets, we must consider four separate elements. These elements are summed up with the acronym SWAP.
 S refers to the slope of the ramp, which is a maximum 8.33%, and that's a strict requirement. Where it absolutely came from, we're not sure, but we think it goes back to the days of it's one inch per 12, 8.33%. W is for the wings on either side of the ramp, which has a maximum of 10%.
 A is to make sure that the ramp is accessible, meaning that it's free from obstructions, so people in wheelchairs or crutches can actually get up and around the ramp to make their turns. And then finally, in Portland, we use P for perpendicular. So when a wheelchair user comes down the ramp to the street, they don't tip because they're coming to the street in a perpendicular fashion.
 In addition to meeting these core requirements, an ADA compliant ramp must also have the yellow bumps at the bottom of the ramp. The official name for these bumps is called the truncated domes, and they provide an important signal to people with visual impairments that they are entering or leaving a traveled way. Here is one of our inspection forms so that you can see how these elements actually work and translate onto a project.
 We have approximately 27,000 corners with curb ramps in Portland. Many of these ramps are in need of repair. In addition, there are approximately 11,000 other corners without ramps. To address this situation, we have had a sustained program of curb ramp installations.
 For the last few years, we have been installing ramps like these at an average rate of 750 ramps per year. And this is quite an accomplishment. But unfortunately, as Tim Fox, the Executive Director of the Civil Rights Education and Enforcement Center, called CREAC, and Linda Dardarian, who specializes in disability rights, have brought to our attention that the city is falling short of what the ADA requires of us.
 In 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act became effective. It requires that curb cuts be built so that people with mobility devices can get access to and from the street onto the sidewalks. Without curb ramps, people are forced to travel in the street, which poses significant safety risks.
 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one in eight people have or have had serious difficulty walking or lifting their feet to clear a step or a curb. Curb ramps remove that barrier. A curbed corner brings us and people so that they can more easily reach the sidewalk.
 To address the shortfall in our efforts, we entered into a settlement negotiation with CREEC starting in the year 2016. The settlement before you puts into practice our commitment to bringing an accessible Portland. It also demonstrates that when we find a common goal in a higher purpose,
 Parties that would otherwise be adversarial can indeed collaborate to find a positive, productive way to address the issues as partners without resorting to expensive litigation. We found a way to put more dollars towards building an accessible city and providing a plan that makes it more manageable for the city in lieu of it being mandated by a court order.
 Because we had been constructing ramps over the years and were transparent, and since Portland does not dispute that we aim to be an accessible city for all, Creek was agreeable to help us as a partner to make this happen in a more manageable way. They were open to working with us to find a way that would allow the city to get compliant over time.
 This settlement agreement calls for 1,500 curb ramp builds or upgrades per year for the next 12 years for a total of 18,000 curb ramp improvements. It calls for an inventory of all ramps within two years and a transition plan that describes the plan for addressing, upgrading, or installing the remaining ramps required to make the city fully accessible.
 The City will provide the CREAC team with an annual report summarizing the number of locations and locations of accessible curb ramps installed or upgraded, along with access to our GIS system for their own tracking. Curb ramp installations and upgrades will be prioritized for public services, schools, parks, hospitals, and bus stops through the view of an equity lens.
 The Portland Bureau of Transportation, the Bureau of Environmental Services, the Bureau of Development Services, the Portland Water Bureau and Parks are all working together to upgrade curb ramps when a utility or pavement work is performed. And our pavement restoration standards reflect that when a curb corner is touched, it must be brought to standard with a curb ramp.
 The Bureau of Technology Services has made our curb ramps by request system now accessible by moving the link to the intake form to our primary city webpage. Our maintenance operations paving operations now construct 450 ramps annually and are highly proficient in both laying them out and constructing and finishing them nearly year-round.
 Electronic inspection reports are well underway and our ADA curb grant program is one of the first in the country to be certified by the Federal Highway Administration. And our construction specifications require that accessible routes be provided in construction areas. This ordinance is to approve the settlement agreement and any documents necessary to implement the agreement. The City Budget Office
 PBOT and Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Cooperman have in tandem and together identified a tentative plan to fulfill the financial terms of the agreement pursuant to the City's budget approval process. Those of us who do not currently have disabilities are fortunate, and it's easy to take our own mobility for granted. As you will hear from our guests today, this is not something that everyone enjoys. Thank you.
 We need to do everything we can to remove barriers to safe and equitable access for our fellow Portlanders and those who live with disabilities. We're doing that with this settlement today. We're living up to our ideals of equity and accessibility today. I'm so proud of our city, and I am honored to present this settlement for your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Nicole, did you want to?
 So I think it's important that we support the settlement. I think one of the pieces that have been mentioned and needs to be highlighted is that we as a city adopted the Americans with Disability Act in 1993. And so when something like this comes up, we really don't look at what we're doing now, but what have we done from 93 till now? And so
 We are grossly out of compliance with curb cuts. And so this is something we have to do. It's something we should have been doing. It's unfortunate that it had to come out of a settlement, but it's happening, which is great. And I think that as we see equity moving forward in the city, it is important, as Leah said, that...
 We need to include disability equity in the racial equity conversation. Not just because disability equity is important, but there are people of color with disabilities. And so I think this is a great step forward for us and it's something that I hope continues to keep on our radar, the things that we need to be doing to make Portland more inclusive for everyone. Thank you.
 Panel's happy to take any questions, or we can invite up our next panel. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you all. So now I'd like to invite the claimants and the Civil Rights Education and Enforcement Center attorney to come to the table. And if you could each just give us your name. I'm Tess Ronig. I'm Tim Fox with the Civil Rights Education and Enforcement Center. I don't know. I heard you.
 Good morning. Thank you for being here. And I'm Linda Dardarian. Good morning, Linda. Thank you. So good morning, council members. I think I'll lead off. I'm going to be very short. And Linda and everyone else will have a few words to say after that.
 I was kind of thinking about what I wanted to say here today. I was injured and started using a wheelchair as a result of a sports injury when I was 21 years old. So I've had the experience of not being disabled and then I've had three decades of experience using a wheelchair. And it occurred to me that it might not be obvious to someone who doesn't use a wheelchair the benefits of existing and compliant car brands. So I thought I would speak to that.
 And there's two different categories. There's corners that don't have any curb ramps at all. And those obviously are problematic because if you're driving along and you're trying to get to the sidewalk on the other side of the street and you encounter a corner with no curb ramp, you have to either go some other route or usually just drive in the street until you can find a spot to get up onto the sidewalk. It's also difficult when there are existing curb ramps that are noncompliant. So, for example...
 There are some curb ramps that are kind of steep, and where they meet the gutter or the street, that can have the reverse slope. And the consequence of that is that as you're going down the steep curb ramp and then encountering the opposite slope, you can pitch forward. All of that has real-life consequences. One thing is that it causes me, particularly in a new city of which I'm not very aware, to want to have somebody with me.
 so that if I'm going down this ramp that I think is okay but might not be, I've got somebody who can hold my upper body from pitching forward at the bottom of the ramp. So it impacts my independence. Yes.
 It also can be difficult in a variety of settings in which, as a person with a disability, you're trying to integrate with other members of the community. So, for example, when I was a summer associate many, many years ago in Los Angeles, we all went out and we were walking several blocks to a restaurant, I think it was, and we came across a corner that didn't have a curb ramp.
 And so I separated off and went around the block while everybody else went on their way. And it's just those kinds of experiences that when you're already in the process of trying hard to kind of feel like you're part of an integrated group, you encounter something like that and it just emphasizes the differences rather than the likenesses.
 And this settlement really goes a long ways towards addressing those issues in that it will result in new ramps being put in at corners where there are no ramps, and it will result in ramps that exist but are not compliant being brought into compliance.
 And that just means a tremendous amount to me as a person with a disability who's kind of grown to fall in love with this city. I love Portland, and I have not had the opportunity to come here until we've had these discussions, and it's just a wonderful place. And so I urge approval of this agreement because it will make this city accessible to all persons regardless of disability. And I want to say one other thing that Linda's going to touch on as well.
 We've worked with a lot of cities about curb ramp issues over the years, and the folks in Portland have just been amazing. We've really enjoyed getting to know the folks, Eva and everyone else on her team, and I just wanted to personally express my thanks for that. Thank you. Thank you for those kind words. Thanks, Tim, and thank you.
 for having us here today to discuss the settlement and for you to approve the settlement. We all have a lot to be very proud of today. Under this agreement, the City of Portland will make substantial improvements to the accessibility of its pedestrian right-of-way for residents and visitors with mobility disabilities by installing and upgrading about 18,000 curb ramps over the next 12 years.
 double the rate of installations and upgrades of recent years. This really is a very remarkable commitment that Portland is making. And this commitment was achieved in a remarkable way by remarkable people. How was this achieved? This is a settlement, but there was no lawsuit. Instead, it started with a letter.
 a letter that described how the lack of accessible curb ramps in the pedestrian right-of-way prevents individuals with mobility disabilities from independently and fully participating in the sidewalk system that Portland makes available to the general public.
 But the letter also acknowledged that the people who make up the government of the city of Portland are well-intentioned, and that Portland has a commitment to disability equity and wanted to be a leader in ensuring that Portland is accessible to residents and visitors with disabilities. So the letter invited Portland to work together with the community of people with mobility disabilities and us as their representatives to address this urgent civil rights and safety issue.
 and to achieve Portland's goal of embracing the letter and spirit of the Americans with Disabilities Act and other civil rights laws. In other words, instead of throwing a punch to begin a big fight with a lawsuit, we offered Portland an outstretched hand to sit down together and work on problem solving. And to the city's great credit, the city saw this as an opportunity and responded positively to the invitation with a message that, yes, we can do better.
 And we very much appreciated that. So instead of engaging in costly and expensive and protracted litigation, we worked together with representatives from the city attorney's office and PBOT to
 to problem solve, and that involved frank discussions, open sharing of information, meetings with us and our clients who are here today to talk about the issues with the existing pedestrian right-of-way, corners that are problematic, how to prioritize what needs to be fixed most urgently, identifying funding sources to help Portland achieve the goal of a fully accessible pedestrian right-of-way,
 and developing a schedule for making the pedestrian right-of-way compliant and accessible on a much more rapid schedule than was being pursued before, but in a way that the city can realize that is workable for the city and for its residents and visitors with disabilities. Thank you.
 And this was all done very collaboratively, without an adversarial process, which often results in tension and great expense and ruins relationships. Instead, this process resolved the matter much more quickly than litigation, much more efficiently, and at the fraction of the cost of litigation. But best of all, relationships were forged and built and strengthened throughout this process.
 Working together, we built a relationship of trust and open communication between the city representatives and the community's representatives that will continue for many years. And this was due to the remarkable people involved. Two of them you will hear from soon, Tess Ronig and Alan Hines, and then also Carol Zoom, who is a resident of Portland but also lives part-time in Maui, and that's where she happens to be right now. So she couldn't join us today.
 There are three Portland residents who took it upon themselves to represent the interests of people with mobility disabilities to ensure that all can safely and independently move throughout the city's pedestrian right-of-way. And we also had remarkable champions and partners in problem solving. Eva Huntsinger from PBOT, who you've heard from. Kent McGare, Scott Mody, and Linda Law from the City Attorney's Office.
 Randy Stenquist from Risk Management, and also initially David Galat, who is also here today. They welcomed the opportunity to do the right thing for Portland and its residents and visitors with mobility disabilities, to do so efficiently and effectively for everyone concerned, and in a way that works for Portland, in a way that makes Portland a community partner and a leader for the future.
 This really is a remarkable achievement, one that we are extremely proud of and you should be proud of as well. And you should show your pride by approving the ordinance, approving the settlement. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Again, my name is Tess Ronig. I just wanted to share a personal story about my experience with noncompliant curb ramps and hopefully emphasize the importance of this settlement.
 When I first moved to Portland, I was downtown with some friends. It was just off Burnside, I think on 9th. I went down this very steep curb ramp, but didn't see that it had an edge on it, so it wasn't flush with the street. Okay.
 And the front of my wheelchair caught on that, and I was tipped into the street out of my chair. And it was very, very fortunate that I had people with me and that there wasn't traffic at the time because I got a few scrapes, but I could have been much more seriously hurt. So it's just very...
 I'm grateful that this settlement is happening because it will prevent other people from having to experience that. And then when I lived in southeast Portland, there were lots of noncompliant curb ramps and just nonexistent curb ramps in my neighborhood. And it made it really, really hard for me to navigate my neighborhood.
 It made it difficult to get to know my neighbors because I just couldn't move freely around my neighborhood. So this settlement is a blessing for all residents with disabilities. Thank you. We appreciate your being here.
 And I think that all kinds of programs that support people with disabilities to live independently in our community
 This ceremony means a lot to me and our community in general. There are certain neighborhoods in the city where it is
 It is nearly impossible for a person in a minority to not be able to live in a neighborhood so helpful that it was the same.
 so we will make all of our neighborhoods important and accessible to people with mobility needs. So thank you for considering this and I hope you will approve the Senate.
 Thank you. We appreciate your being here. Thank you all for being here. That completes the invited testimony. Very good. Our public testimony, Carla, do we have people signed up today? Yes, we have one more. Joe Walsh. Mr. Walsh. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. This program and settlement is something you should all be very proud of.
 In the future, I will most likely be in a wheelchair. So obviously, I have a bias when it comes to this. My radius of movement is slowly being taken away from me. So you should be proud of this. The program itself, I said with a great smile on my face, but I was also haunted because I'm an activist.
 Why in 2018 are we where we are? Why do we have so much work to do? I always get that feeling when these things come up. You know, where were we in 91, 90, when the ADA was being passed and everybody that had a brain knew?
 that a wheelchair cannot go off a curb unless you build a ramp. I mean, we all knew that. Where were we? Why didn't we do it? And why are we now catching up in such a drastic way? I'm just pleading with you. When you deal with ADA and you're dealing with it today and it's on your mind,
 Think of ways that you can really help. The sidewalks also are in really bad shape. I know that because I pull my friend along with me, and often I'll hit a rise in the sidewalk. It'll pull right out of my hand. So I'm aware of that. Sidewalks are bad. Your building, you should figure out a way about getting people in the back.
 I know that's going to be expensive because you have no ramp there. You have to figure out a way to get past those steps. You have some really bright, talented people either working for you or volunteering, and you just heard from some of them. They can figure that out. If you draw people out front, which happens to me a lot, I have to get out on a traffic side because there's no way that you can park properly.
 and get me out on the non-traffic side, but in the back. It's perfect, except when you walk in the door. Then you've got a problem. But you can figure that out. Mr. Mayor, you've got three more years to figure it out. What I'm suggesting to you, I can't believe I used all my time, what I'm suggesting to you is don't let this be just another one, another issue.
 This should be something you look in the mirror in the morning and say, how can I help? What can we do today? This is a big one, and I'm praising you. They don't do it very often. But all five of you, with no exceptions, I'm praising you for this. So thank you for it, and thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm getting older, by the way. Mayor, can we have a couple questions for staff? Yes, please, Commissioner Fish. We could have the team come back for a second.
 So thank you for the presentation, and I look forward to supporting the ordinance before us, and it includes authorizing the commissioner in charge to enter into a consent decree, which has certain provisions, including some ongoing financial obligations, which seem reasonable.
 The primary financial obligation that we're incurring today, it's clear to me, is in the consent decree, which obligates us to cover the attorney fees for the plaintiff's lawyers for a period of time. And there's a cap that seems to be set forth, so we can calculate that obligation later.
 The impact statement, though, says we're still about $52 million short of figuring out how to pay for this, and that's in addition to monies which apparently have been identified through Bill Portland and other general fund sources. And I don't know that I've seen any document that lays all that out, Mayor, and because we are today not being asked to actually formalize how we're going to pay for it, we're entering into the resolution of the dispute –
 I think it's very important, though, that the council have a complete understanding of all the conversations, the various options. I want to be very clear, this is a huge priority for me that we do this. Someone other than Commissioner Saltzman is going to be in charge of PBOT starting at some point and have the duty to find the resources to implement this.
 But when I read that $61 million has already been identified, including general fund and build Portland resources, that's news to me. And then when I hear we have a $52 million gap that has not been discussed by the council, and it concludes by saying all this will be addressed as part of the mayor's budget proposal, which it clearly has not,
 I want to make sure that we're all clear about our obligations, the options before us, and how to pay for this.
 I'm not saying we have a bad habit of signing onto agreements and then not funding them, but I do think this is going to require some very tough choices going forward on budget time, and I think it's very important that the council have all that information. So if there's a document that identifies everything PBOT has identified as potential funding sources and then the balance that is due and options for that, I would ask for a copy of that.
 And I know the mayor has an ask. Part of his budget includes, I think, half a million or a million dollars set aside. But these are much bigger numbers. And I know today is not the day we're going to figure out how to pay for this, but I would like to know what the roadmap is and what our options are because these are very big numbers. Any comment to that?
 Good morning. Council and Mayor, this is Jeremy Patton with PBOT. So we did work on a memo with the Chief Financial Officer and CBO and ourselves to kind of try and find a right split kind of between the general fund and PBOT resources to help pay for this. Hopefully that memo kind of reached your office. It came out kind of in the end of April, but I can kind of describe really quickly some of the bigger level components of that memo. Okay.
 and what's been included in the mayor's proposed budget right now, which is kind of up for vote. So starting with the PBOT component, it's about – so we have the $113 million problem.
 And what we've done as PBOT is identified about 60 million of internal PBOT resources over the next 12 years to try to address that. About 60 million? When you say internal PBOT resources, does that mean non-general fund? Non-general fund resources, correct. So it's a mix of – I've got the budget office shaking their head. That's not what it says in the impact statement. So I just – I want to get a clarification on that because that's not what the impact statement says.
 Impact statement says that that $61 million includes general fund and Bill Portland resources, so that would clearly be general fund resources. Commissioner, may I make a suggestion?
 I share your concerns about the financing plan, and I was going to say in my closing statement that I don't agree with the financing plan. I think it would be helpful to approve the settlement because we have to, and then have a further discussion, perhaps even a work session about how to pay for it.
 I'm all for that. I just, because it's before us and this document says that there's been these conversations and potential splits, I just, I want to make sure that we have all the information we need, because a future council will be responsible for making sure we honor the commitment we're making today. And it looks like there's a lot of, it was news to me, by the way, Mayor, that there are Bill Portland resources available.
 That's a pot that's going to come under a lot of strain. But to the extent there's general fund resources, obviously we can't commit future councils to that, but I want to make sure that we honor whatever the framework is. Otherwise, we could end up being in disputes over implementation of this very quickly, and I don't want that to happen.
 So you said there's a memo that issued sometime in April? Yes, there's a memo issued in April that kind of outlines the larger pots of money that would help fill that gap. Okay. Well, I'm going to take Commissioner Fritz's advice that we'll separate these two things. But just speaking for me, and now that it's clear that –
 The city has stuck with me for another four and a half years. I want to make sure what it is that we're committing to so I can do my part at budget time to make sure we're allocating the money. And right now, I guess I'm just not so clear about how we're going to fund this. So I hope we have a robust discussion about that. Thank you. Okay. Thank you all. Very good. Thank you. And we've completed public testimony. Yes. Please call the roll.
 Well, first, Dan, thank you for bringing this forward, and thank you to our professional team, and thank you to the plaintiff's lawyers and the plaintiffs who joined us today. It's actually very rare that we have the benefit of having plaintiff's lawyers and plaintiffs involved.
 coming and testifying, and I think it's very refreshing. And I particularly appreciated the comment that was made that it simply took a letter to engage the city in problem solving, not years of litigation, which is expensive and time-consuming and often doesn't move the ball. And so I credit everyone involved that they reacted to this in a positive and proactive way rather than a defensive way.
 You know, the truth is that curb cuts are just one of the sort of canaries in the tunnel, but there are so many other examples of facilities and public spaces and other things in our community that are not ADA compliant. And one of the ways the ADA was constructed, the Americans with Disabilities Act, is it has a mechanism for putting people on notice that they have to fix it, and it's not designed to be punitive. It's designed to be corrective.
 And so here's an example of where a watchdog group has said we're falling short, and the city has stepped up and said we're going to do better, and I compliment everybody for the spirit in which they entered into this. We want our city to be welcoming and accessible to people of all ages and abilities. We want to be the leading city of our size in that way. And today I think we're taking another step forward. I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman.
 I have a lot of people to thank. I want to first of all thank the claimants for what you've done today, for bringing this before us, but also for sharing your experiences with our sidewalks and our curb ramps. I think that firsthand perspective is something that really helps me appreciate that we need to do better. And I think I want to thank Creek for sending us that letter rather than a tort claim.
 and engaging in a conversation that's leading to the settlement today, which is a major obligation, but it's also a major responsibility we have to our residents. I wanted to thank Director Treat for her commitment to equity and her receptiveness to the idea of trying to work this out in an amicable manner. Eva Hunziger of Portland Bureau of Transportation, who really led the discussions with our city attorney office yesterday,
 on this settlement, and I think she has the benefit of being both not only a professional engineer, but she's also an attorney. So those perspectives really, I think, helped us to get to where we are today. I wanted to thank all the people in our city attorney's office, Ken McGare, Scott Mody, Linda Law, for their work on this, Nicole Cherone as well, and I think I'm not leaving anybody out.
 Randy Stinkwist, yes, Randy Stinkwist from RISC, always an important voice, and Jeremy Patton, too. So thank you all for the settlement. This is the right thing to do. Aye. Udaly?
 Well, thank you to PBOT, city attorneys, and Commissioner Saltzman. Before I launch into my broader comments, I want to say how pleased I am to hear about how you are thoughtfully prioritizing this work because it is a daunting task, and there is greater need in some areas more than others. So I'm going to be checking out your curb ramps by request and maybe putting in a few in my neighborhood. Thank you.
 So disability is a natural part of the human experience. There have always been people with disabilities. There always will be. And as our life expectancies increase, the number of people with disabilities, especially mobility challenges, will increase as well. I want to note how unusual it is to see multiple people in chambers using mobility devices.
 I also want to note that having four or five people in the room is actually more reflective of our population with one in eight people who have or have had experienced mobility challenges. And the fact that this is a rare event highlights the challenges that we're here to talk about today. Sorry, I skipped ahead of my notes.
 And that challenge is navigating a world in a city that was not built with wheels in mind, at least not that are not attached to a combustible engine. So many people with disabilities do not view their disabilities as negative or unfortunate. It's the disabling environment, both physical and attitudinal barriers that is unfortunate.
 And nearly three decades after the ADA passed, it's inexcusable. I want to thank the advocates who are here today for their grace and their patience and their understanding. I don't think that we deserve it as a city, but it is greatly appreciated nevertheless. Thank you. As noted, the city of Portland is woefully behind on ADA compliance.
 I hope that this lawsuit will inspire us to be more proactive and do the right thing without the threat of a lawsuit in the future. Our bureaus have had 25 years to plan, budget, and implement their ADA compliance plans. I know we're not floating on a funding plan today, but I want to echo Commissioner Fish's concerns about how these improvements will be funded.
 Their ADA compliance is neither sudden or unanticipated, and I look forward to that conversation. Aye. Fritz.
 Well, thank you, everybody who's been involved. I vividly remember about 20 years ago when I was a registered nurse working at Oregon Health and Sciences University, taking a person using a wheelchair outside for some fresh air and encountering a curb ramp that wasn't flush with the pavement and having to take a run at it to get over it. It was only a little like half an inch to an inch lip, and yet it was very difficult, even with the old...
 the non-electric wheelchairs to push the person up it. And ever since then, I've noticed when I'm walking around where curb cuts are obviously not going to be very helpful for people who are using mobility devices. And so I'm very pleased that we've gotten into this settlement today.
 Thank you to the claimants and their attorneys for their approach. I really appreciated hearing about the letter and the outreach, and then I appreciated hearing that our attorneys and staff responded with welcoming and with talking together. It made me very happy that of all the equity initiatives submitted,
 I believe ours may still be the only one that has a secondary focus, apart from racial equity, on disabilities. And so I want to credit Joe Vanderveer and Nyla McCarthy, who were on the Portland Commission on Disabilities at the time when we established the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 who insisted that disability had to be part of what the city does. And I think that's one of the best decisions that I've been a part of on the council. And that was spurred by Nicole Chiron and Amalie Alicante-Morris establishing the Commission on Disability, which I got to oversee and one of the first things I got to do on council in 2009.
 And Danielle Brooks and Dora Perry were also a big part of that. So it was good to hear there was a recognition that the city has been trying. I also hear the recognition that we haven't been trying hard enough and that we need to get to do more. And so this is a historic settlement. I do want to discuss the financing of it. That's for a further conversation that we shouldn't detract from today. So thank you, Leotri. I know that you're going to be moving on. This is a legacy that...
 will be appreciated citywide for a very long time. Thank you for your leadership. Eva Huntsinger, you've done an amazing job on this entire project, and the explanation today was extremely clear. City attorneys, the Civil Rights Education and Enforcement Centre, all the work that's been done on the age-friendly cities, Commissioner Fish and your leadership for that, and of course Commissioner Saltzman for your guiding of this process, Mayor Wheeler for being willing to say, yes, we're going to have to figure out how to pay for this, and we will.
 So thank you so much. This is a good settlement for everyone, and I'm happy to move it forward. Aye. Wheeler. I'd also like to thank the claimants, and I'd like to thank you both for the substance of your approach. You're right, and you always were right. And I'd like to thank you for the tenor.
 and the style of your approach, which was to approach the city of Portland in a collaborative manner and see if we could work together to find a solution that will bring us both into compliance with the law and provide us the opportunity for a fiscally-
 and a fiscally responsible approach to funding the solution. So thank you, and I agree with all the positive things that my colleagues have said, and I'm glad Commissioner Fritz just added to the mix that while...
 The disability community is front and center in this conversation. I don't want to lose sight of the fact that we have declared that we are going to be an age-friendly city. And with an aging population, that means these kinds of access and mobility and accommodation issues need to be more highly prioritized than they've been. I wouldn't be me if I didn't slightly rain on the parade.
 I want to remind us what we heard today. What we are doing is we are working to come into compliance with federal law. This has been federal law for decades. And a former city council back in 1993 made it very clear that we were going to adhere to federal law. And it is only through the largesse.
 and the generosity and the approach to partnership through the claimants that we were able to get to that point. But Commissioner Fish raised a question that's been really interesting to me since I got here however many months ago, the question of how do we pay for things, number one, and can we bind future councils, number two. Okay.
 When the city council in 1993 said that they were going to uphold federal law, ADA, they bound this council. And the reality is there aren't a whole lot of great financing options out there. There are financing options, and it's going to take a ton of hard work for us to be able to realize the potential of those financing options. And we're here today to recommit that.
 to working to find whatever that right package is. And I certainly want to work with my colleagues to find a package that we collectively agree is the right package. But the bottom line is that for 25 years we have been ignoring
 our requirements here writ large. I understand that the city has been committed and individuals have been committed to this and policies have demonstrated that. But in terms of actually complying with the letter in the spirit of ADA, we didn't do it. And therefore, every year we did not do it, our legal and financial risk has grown. And I think part of my job coming in as the mayor is to direct all of our city boroughs
 to clearly identify our legal and financial risk so that this city council, because we are committed to it, so that this city council can actually put plans on the table to address our legal and financial risk. I do not want to be in a position where 25 years from now some mayor sits in this chair and says, holy cow, what did you do to me? Why did you leave this exposure on the table?
 For us, that is an intergenerational transfer of responsibility and resources, and it's not going to continue to happen, not under my watch. So I want to thank the partners who are here today. This is great work. It moves us in the right direction, and I'm just grateful that we are lucky enough to have such fabulous partners in this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you all for being here. Next item, 467.
 Authorize a loan in an amount not to exceed $500,000 to Portland Homeless Family Solutions to purchase real property at 6102 and 6220 Southeast 92nd Avenue for use as a homeless shelter.
 Colleagues, last year the City Council allocated $1.25 million for new shelters, and we've requested the Portland Housing Bureau to direct $500,000 to this project. The item in front of us today is to authorize $500,000 in funding to Portland Homeless Family Solutions to acquire a new shelter, augmenting shelter capacity here in the City of Portland.
 This project will add to the available temporary housing options for families experiencing homelessness, serving homeless families at their most vulnerable. With us today is, of course, Shannon Callahan, who's the Portland Housing Bureau Interim Director. We have...
 Brandy Tuck, who's the Executive Director of Portland Homeless Family Solutions. And I'm sorry, can you remind me? Sally Erickson with the Joint Office of Homeless Services. Sally, I'm sorry, I'm just having one of those moments. Thank you for being here too, Sally. We sure appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau. I'm pleased to be here this morning to support the joint efforts of the city, county, and community today.
 to find more safe spaces for families without permanent housing. The Portland Housing Bureau will be contributing funds from the Lentz Urban Renewal Area to close the gap needed to purchase this building. Portland Homeless Family Solutions has done extensive private fundraising, and we are pleased to be able to join them with the final needed funds for this purchase.
 As we all know, of course, shelter is not the solution to homelessness. Housing is. And we are pleased that we've been able to create 458 new units of affordable housing in Lent and have an additional 259 in the pipeline. We will also ensure that if this property is not used as a shelter or for affordable housing, we will be able to secure the land for affordable housing in the future. Thank you.
 We think this is a wise investment, helping kids and families stay safe while we all work together to move them into permanent housing. Brandy? Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and City Council members. Thank you for having me here today. My name is Brandy Tuck, and I have been the Executive Director of Portland Homeless Family Solutions for the last 11 years.
 Our mission is to empower homeless families with children to get back into housing and stay there long term. Our roots go back to 1994 when a group of committed volunteers created the Goose Hollow Family Shelter, which houses eight homeless families with children every night of the year.
 Families come at 6 p.m. and they leave by 7.30 the next morning. Over the years, PHFS has expanded the Goose Hollow Family Shelter to include robust social services that help over 200 families every year.
 Today we operate several programs. We operate a Housing First program that helps families experiencing homelessness move back into housing. Last year we helped 185 families or 653 moms, dads and kids move back into housing. In our Homeless Prevention Program, families with 72-hour eviction notices get help keeping their housing and preventing homelessness before it even starts.
 And we operate shelter programs with the Goose Hollow Family Shelter for eight families with children every night of the year, the Family Winter Shelter at Congregation Beth Israel for 75 moms, dads, and kids during the winter months, and the 13 Salmon Family Center, which is the day center for both of the night programs. Over the last year, we served 700 individuals. Sixty-one percent of those people were children. Half of those children were under the age of five.
 Everyone in Portland can see that we are experiencing a homeless crisis and a housing state of emergency. But what everyone doesn't know is how many people who experience homelessness are children and their parents. Last school year, there were 4,317 students that experienced homelessness in Multnomah County alone.
 4,300 students experienced homelessness in one year. That number doesn't count their little brothers and sisters. We know at PHFS half of our kids are under five, so presumably there's another 4,000 little kids, plus all their parents. The wait list to get into the family system is a year long. Our shelters are full and over capacity.
 Kids don't have a place to eat, do their homework, sleep, or just relax. If a family became homeless tonight in Multnomah County, there is literally nowhere that they could go to find safe shelter. We need to do better. PHFS has a plan to do better. It's called our Families First Campaign. And that's why we're here today.
 We have an opportunity to buy a 16,000 square foot building and eight adjacent apartments in the southeast Lentz neighborhood of Portland. The campus would allow us to provide shelter for 26 families with children at a time, about 75 to 90 moms, dads, and kids. Each family would have their own private room with shared bathrooms, living spaces, and a big kitchen with three meals a day.
 The new site would provide 24 hours of continuous service for families. No longer will families need to wake up and be out the door by 7 30 in the morning. The Lentz campus is also closer to where families actually live. Our programs are all downtown and families come downtown just because we're here.
 Families we work with don't live downtown. Sometimes they've never even been downtown before, maybe once, to go to the courthouse. Our families live out east. Their kids go to Centennial, Reynolds, Park Rose, and David Douglas school districts, and they want our services to be closer to where their lives are centered.
 There are eight units of two-bedroom apartments. We plan to run those apartments as shelter, two families per apartment, one in each bedroom. And there's room for growth. There's a large back parking lot that we would plan to develop into affordable housing in the future. We would also invite other social service agencies to come provide wraparound services like mental health, domestic violence advocacy, child care, and employment.
 PHFS has a track record of success over the last 10 years to show that our approach to services works. We have a strong fundraising program that allows us to stretch our public dollars really far and has allowed us to build a sustainable infrastructure that is sophisticated enough to support growth.
 Our staff are experts in the field and are rigorously trained in evidence-based practices. We pay a living wage, and because of those two things, we have an 85% staff retention rate. Today, Portland Homeless Family Solutions asks you to vote in favor of a $500,000 equity gap contribution to help PHFS acquire this great family shelter campus in the Lentz neighborhood. Thanks so much, and I'm happy to answer questions.
 Thanks, Brandy. Questions? Commissioner Saltzman. I was just curious what that building was. Great question. Yeah, it used to be a Russian church. It kind of looks like a castle. But for the last five years, it's been run as an inpatient men's addiction recovery program by a national nonprofit called Teen Challenge International. They have bought a new program, a new building in Estacada, and have moved their services over to Estacada for the sale of the building.
 Commissioner Fritz? Brandy, you said that there's room to grow on this campus. So we looked at that slide. Is the zoning on that property, particularly in the back where there appears to be a parking lot, flexible enough to allow you to do some additional housing there? It's CM2. So, yeah, it's very flexible, and we can do residential housing there. Terrific. Thank you. Very good. Public testimony, Carla? Yes.
 Yes, we have three people signed up. Very good. Please come on up. Joe Walsh, Ellen Vanderslice, and Mary Seip. Come on up, and thank you. Good morning. Would you like to start, please? Good morning. Sure. My name is Ellen Vanderslice. I reside in northwest Portland. I'm also very recently, as of less than three weeks, a property owner in the Lentz Neighborhood Association, where my husband and I have bought a small vacant lot, hoping to develop some naturally affordable housing.
 And for the last little bit more than a year and a half, I've had the honor of serving on the Board of Directors of Portland Homeless Family Solutions. And I'm here today to urge approval of this ordinance and make the case that this is a sound public investment. I'm convinced that this new family center will be a success. This is the right organization at the right time in the right place.
 PHFS is the right organization to take family shelter and housing to a new level. In my decades as an advocate and as a bureaucrat, I've had to deal with a lot of different nonprofits, and as you know, I founded some of them. But PHFS stands out for having its actions based on its values. It lives out its mission. It is thoughtful and strategic. It is really good at fundraising.
 And it's very agile in responding appropriately to opportunity. Brandy put up the slide about the Moonshot. I was present at the board retreat where we came up with the Moonshot idea. That was just a little over a year ago, last April in 2017. And at that time the board had it, I mean, in Moonshot it was like, it was way out there. And here we are today.
 so close to buying this actual site, and I'm just so excited about this. The Lentz property is ideal for expanding PHFS's services, and Brandy went over the housing, the programs, the shelter. I have been a volunteer at...
 for more than a decade. I started out with my husband volunteering overnight as hosts. And being present when families have to get out at 7.30 in the morning, it's just traumatic. And what we want to provide for families who are already experiencing the trauma of homelessness
 trauma-informed care is something where people don't have additional trauma forced on them, and having to get up at 6.30 in the morning seven days a week and be out the door, up the back stairs, and not be seen by anybody at 7.30 in the morning is really just not very conducive to a pleasant day.
 I think this is a great opportunity. It's amazing how quickly it's come together. And finally, you have the opportunity to leverage this investment. They're getting a million-and-a-half bank loan. They've raised nearly a million-and-a-half dollars privately, and you're asked to put in the extra half million. Please do it. Thank you. Thank you. Great testimony. Thank you. Okay, I'll jump in. Thank you, Mary. Thank you.
 I, too, want to urge you to approve this loan. I can't tell you how excited I was to see this on the agenda this morning, especially in lieu of the work that I'm now doing with the Oregon Harbor of Hope and the Navigation Center.
 I was really excited to hear about the potential of the 458 affordable units and the focus on families. I find it just so interesting how timely, after Lightning spoke this morning about his concern about homeless families. And, you know, we just – it just speaks to what the private sector can do and how quickly –
 these things can move along as well. And I just want to say kudos to the Portland Homeless Family Solutions for what they're doing. We at Oregon Harbor of Hope may be reaching out to you as one of the agencies that we look to to help in our endeavors. And I also want to kind of throw a little shout-out as you're designing affordable housing programs
 to also be thinking in terms of how you...
 kind of find a way to put those people who are homeless and unhoused at the top of the waiting list, in the front line, before people who are housed move into those buildings, who are just moving from one home to another home. Right now, the affordable housing projects around the city are tightening up their eligibility criteria
 They want people to have two years of rental history. We all know that people currently living on the streets are not going to qualify under those kinds of tight restrictions. They don't have two years of rental history. They are denying people that have delinquent debt over $1,000. Okay.
 they're denying people that have felony convictions and not even doing any kind of special review or anything like that. So as you're moving forward with this, think in terms of how can this affordable housing reach out to the people who are unhoused right now and put them at the front of the line. And again, I urge you to approve this loan. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. This is... We're speaking in favor of this. The $500,000 loan that will eventually be a gift down the line someplace. However, we hate emergency shelters. They are necessary. We have to have them.
 Many people tell us that they don't want to go to emergency shelters because they fear for their safety. They don't want to go to emergency shelters because they're going to lose their animals. They don't want to go to emergency shelters because they can't spend the time with their loved one. There are all kinds of regulations we have.
 that are really negative and counterproductive in emergency shelters. And that's what they should be, emergencies. They should not exist for 40 years. If they exist for a long period of time, haven't we failed? Emergency shelters is somebody is cold, they're in the street, we get them inside, that's the concept, but we keep them going.
 And we create these institutions. And those institutions have two criteria. One is to serve the clients, which are the people on the street. The other one is to survive. And if they need to survive, the way in our culture is to expand. And that's what we get into trouble all the time. So when you think of an emergency shelter, you should say,
 Emergency shelters should be disbanded after a couple of years. The other thing is, every emergency shelter should have private spaces for every human being we put in there. So there's some sense of safety. Not bunk beds. Not mats on the floor. They have their private little area. It would not be that difficult to do. Some two-by-fours and some plywood. Right?
 They would be safe. And that's what they're asking. They want to be safe. We hear it over and over again. They're afraid to lose their stuff. You know, I mean, I go nuts with the sweeps because they lose their stuff. They lose their stuff in emergency shelters also. The other thing is human beings have a tendency to be very authoritarian when it comes to when they have power.
 And we've shown that in a number of studies. So these things are necessary. We've got to get rid of them. Thank you. And they've got to be in their own little place. Thank you. Last testimony. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity Watchdog. Again, my biggest concern is when they're dealing with the homeless children, children need to be first to get into permanent housing.
 Children need to be first to get into any beds in a shelter. Children need to be first, and there is no negotiating on this. If you don't allow that to happen, in my opinion, and I'll address this Commissioner Fritz, who is smiling, would be considered child abuse. If you don't think children should be in housing first, I don't think you should sit up here.
 Now, issue number two on this, I approve of the money going to this organization. They do good work. They're focusing in the right area. But I think they would also agree that data pertaining to the homeless children and the students that are homeless and the kids that are sleeping in cars two blocks from their school with their parents to go to school because they don't have housing or any other opportunity available
 Do they lose their kids when the police officer drives up and sees two kids in the backseat and they're two blocks from the school trying to take their kids to the school? That is something that we need more data on, how the police respond to this situation, and understand we have to have systems in place to protect the children first. We do not need to allow this trauma to happen to them at a young age.
 developing minds, trying to go to school, trying to do things with their friends. We need to have systems in place. We need to talk about it. We need to see real numbers. We need to see real solutions such as this group is doing. But as you can see by the numbers that were presented, it is just a small part of the big problem out there that I feel hasn't been addressed.
 We need to get that metro bond pushed through. We need to figure out how we can use money from the city bonds toward these type of groups, toward their redevelopment of more permanent type housing on their back lot. We need to work with these groups and come forward with the funding. But understand, there are no excuses for not having children first into housing. And if anybody in this room ever wants to challenge me on that issue...
 I'm more than glad to challenge you, and I will assure you I have the ability to make sure you don't get reelected. And trust me, talk to Mr. Kogan from Multnomah County and ask me if I can do that. I will assure you you won't get reelected. Children first. No negotiating. Get them into permanent housing. No more excuses. Thank you for your time. All right. Thank you. Appreciate it, all three of you. Thank you. Call the roll.
 Fish. Well, I'm pleased to support this. It is a 60-year loan that is forgivable, and I assume that the decision was made to do that versus a grant for strategic reasons. But it's a good investment. The Portland Homeless Family Solutions is one of our best partners, and Brandy Tuck, a recipient of the Skidmore Prize, is one of the brightest lights in our work. Saltzman. Yes.
 Well, this is a very exciting and necessary project. I appreciate Portland Homeless Family Solutions for undertaking this effort, and I think it's very appropriate for us as a city to put in an amount that will help push this over the finish line and get this shelter open as soon as possible. Hi. You daily. Very.
 excited about this and happy to support it. And would just like to say that regardless of whether we're in a housing emergency and regardless of the state of our housing market, we will always need emergency shelter. So I vote aye. Fritz? Well, thank you, especially to Portland Homeless Family Solutions for the presentation about your work, which addresses everything that we heard in testimony. Thank you, Ellen Vanderslijs, for volunteering and for taking the time to come in to support this resolution.
 And thanks to the Housing Bureau for partnering in this, and also the Portland Development Commission, sorry, Parsifal Portland, and the Lent Urban Renewal District. I appreciate also the support of the community. Aye. Wheeler.
 So this is a great day, and I appreciate Portland Homeless Family Solutions, Brandy. It's always a pleasure to see you and to appreciate, again, the great work that you and your organization are doing. And Shannon Callahan of the Housing Bureau, thank you. There's a couple of points I'd like to make. First of all, people ask me, as mayor, what hills are you willing to die on? This is one of them.
 and you heard the passion from some of the people who are testifying, I share that passion. I would not be sitting in this chair
 but for the fact that for many years I was an overnight volunteer shelter host at the Goose Hollow Family Shelter, now Portland Homeless Family Solutions. And my impression was the impression that was shared from the dais here a few minutes ago, that that 730, you're up, you're out, anybody here who has small kids knows what that's really like.
 And that's in good circumstances. Now imagine that you are living in a homeless situation. Your kids are under a lot of stress. The parents are under a lot of stress. You're in an unfamiliar environment. There's a lot of people in close proximity.
 And you have to do all of those things. They are often difficult as a parent in the best of circumstances. This actually improves the quality of the shelter. I do hope that there will be a day where we do not need shelter in our community. Today is not that day.
 We have over 4,000 students in Multnomah County who are sleeping either in shelters or in cars or on the street. There are probably many, many others who are doubled up in homes and apartments with other people. I'm proud of the work.
 Portland Homeless Family Solutions does because they're really good, once somebody is in the shelter, at getting them out of the shelter and getting them into housing. And collectively, through a Home for Everyone last year, we moved 5,000 people from shelter into housing. And that doesn't even count the 6,000 people who receive preventative homeless services to prevent them from falling into homelessness in the first place. So the key is quality shelter.
 services in the shelter to move people out of the shelter and into permanent housing, and therefore, by the way, freeing up capacity in the shelter for other people who might be in a real pinch who need that support.
 We are going to vote on our budget later today, or at least the proposed piece of this. There's step after step in this budget process. But I believe this council has reached a consensus around $3 million additional in the budget to go specifically towards the transition from shelter into housing.
 And with regard to youth in particular, I just want to remind everybody that this council went down to the legislature in the short session with Multnomah County with the support of the governor, and we were able to secure $5 million of support.
 for the youth family shelter services that we provide here. And that was one of the few instances during that short session where dollars were actually allocated for a purpose like this. So I feel like there is that consensus and that push and that passion to address homelessness youth in our community. I am very happy to vote aye. This is one of the easiest votes I'm ever going to take. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Aye.
 Thank you, Brandy. So, thank you. Colleagues, we have a four-fifths agenda item. Could you please read it, Carla? Proclaim May 13 through 19 to be Taiwanese American Heritage Week.
 Colleagues, we have Jeff Chang, who is going to come forward and talk about contributions by Taiwanese Americans. We have an invited panel of testimony. Jeff will close this out, and then I will read the proclamation. And if people would like, I think it would be fun to get a photograph at the end with the proclamation. Welcome for being here, sir. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler and the City Council, my name is Jeffrey Chan and I'm a 1.5 Chan Taiwanese American who has called Portland home for the last 18 years. I'm both very humbled and proud to be here to have Taiwanese Americans being celebrated by the City Council and also to proclaim the Taiwanese American Heritage Week. Thank you.
 I am a senior advisor to the Taiwanese Association of Greater Poland. And professionally, I'm a director of demand and supply management at Nike. It's only fitting I would like to share a couple of stories about the contributions made by Taiwanese Americans in modern America. So the first story is YouTube, which is an application and a technology platform that I think everybody has on their cell phone. It fundamentally changed how we humans interact, communicate, learn,
 conduct marketing, and doing campaigning. It shapes how we, as a society, talk to each other. Now, while everybody has that technology on their fingertips, not a lot of people know that the company was co-founded by Stephen Chang, who is Taiwanese-American. Another story would be Dr. David Ho. Again, like Stephen, not the household name.
 Dr. Ho is probably the most renowned HIV and AIDS research scientist in the world. He came to the United States at the age of 12 from Taiwan and has earned 12 honorary doctoral degrees. His treatment technique, which is called the combination antiretroviral therapy, has cured and helped countless patients around the world.
 So a couple of quick stories I thought would be important to share as we kick off the celebration to acknowledge the contributions for Taiwanese Americans. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Annie Hsiao, and I am also a 1.5 generation Taiwanese-American. My family moved to Portland in 1996, and the first few years of our move here, our family experienced some cultural isolation, and I also felt how challenging it was to adjust to a new environment here.
 My mother, who is a social butterfly in Taiwan, could no longer easily talk to just anyone that she meets and asks questions. And without the internet back then, it was also challenging to find community space easily like how we do nowadays.
 But eventually, somehow she was able to find the Taiwanese communities and the Taiwanese organizations. So we started to build our roots here in Portland. And so with that experience, I understood personally how important it is to foster community space so that people from all over the world can find support and community. And
 and to celebrate their cultures and their traditions living in a new space as New Portlanders.
 And because of that importance, I have dedicated my life, my professional life and my volunteer life, fostering and building community. I serve as the chapter president of the Formosan Association for Public Affairs, and I am also the advisor for the Taiwanese Association for Greater Portland and on the national board of the Taiwanese Association.
 So that's just a little bit about myself. And I also want to introduce a couple of members of our community who took time off from work to also be here today. And thank you all for celebrating with us. And their contributions may not be as glamorous as Dr. Ho or Stephen Chen, but they are making positive contributions to our Portland every single day.
 And we live, work, form families, pay taxes, and partner with everyone in this room to make our city a better city. We are attorneys, innovators, medical professionals, city workers, engineers, and we are Portlanders. Here are Cherry Chi and Dr. Easton Lee to introduce themselves. Thank you.
 Hi, Mayor and Commissioner. I'm so glad to be here. This is my first time to be in the city of Portland. I'm glad to be here as a Times American Heritage Week proclamation reading. I came to Portland in 91 as an immigrant. I'm very thankful and be grateful to be settled in Portland.
 and received education in Portland from the beginning, and able to finish college, same as my brother. So I graduated from New South Portland, my brother graduated from Oregon State University, and later on we were able to find a job settled in Portland. So I'm currently working at OHSU as a nurse, and my brother working in the city of Portland in Peabody.
 So even though we immigrated to Portland, my parents always teach us not forgetting our homeland, Taiwan. Always ask us to get involved with our local communities. So there are three communities that I involve a lot. It's the Portland Town Lutheran Church and Towns Association of Greater Portland and the FAPA. So my church has been helping assist the early immigration for town's community to settle in Portland. And TAGP also hosts multiple events.
 in Portland to promote Taiwan and also get involved with local events like Rose Festival and Dragon Ball Races and also private chance for local community to get together in bonding. And FAPAD helped me to address the Roscoe organization, the headquarter based in D.C., and we're local chapter here, helped me to get involved with U.S. and Taiwan relations. So, yeah.
 I felt welcome in Portland. And also, I found out the city of Portland is the city of Kaohsiung in Taiwan. That's where I was born. That's where my mom's hometown. So I'm very glad I'll be settled in Portland and Kaohsiung is my hometown.
 U.S. and Taiwan share the same background of human rights, freedom, and democracy. I hope this relationship continues to grow, and because Taiwan needs U.S. as a strong support, as Taiwan facing the challenge in international organization like WHA, WHO, and the United Nations. So I'm glad to be here, and thanks for recognizing Taiwan's American Heritage Week. Thank you for being here.
 Mayor and the city commissioners, good morning. Good morning. My name is Easton Lee. I came to United States from Taiwan in 1995 to seek the higher education. I was a student at the University of Wisconsin-Madison with the material science PhD program. And after graduation in 2000, I relocated to the metropolitan area for work.
 And at that time, I still remember one of my professors talk to me, hi, you are going to Poland. It is the Silicon Forest. So it's such a very beautiful place. So today, also this is the first time I come here. I also notice we have the forest on the ceiling, on the hall.
 So we have the very famous Columbia Gulch and also Forest Park nearby. So the environment is definitely better than the desert-like Silicon Valley in California. Weber Tech is the company I work since 2008.
 We have around 10,000 employees making the mobile computer and medical and automatic chips. This company is owned and invested by the Taiwanese semiconductor manufacturing company. It's also called TSMC.
 So the company is making for the customer design to real product. So you might not know, like this iPhone 10, the chip inside, the device inside a lot of chips is made from my company, TSMC. Like A11, the microprocessors. And in this Silicon Forest region, we have also a lot of great high tech companies, such as Intel, Tektronix.
 microchip, and eBay or Amazon. So the region has a very strong relationship with Taiwan. Hundreds of Taiwanese Americans, I think as similar as my background, we relocate and work in here. We start our family, our career, our social network here. We live here, shop here, and also doing the volunteer work here.
 such as attending the Chinese Association of Great Poland, we have the outreach for the community. And I think, finally, thanks for the...
 For this community to offer us with the open environment and also treat us with equality, we feel like at home, and we are Taiwanese-Americans. We are trying to make a sweet home here. Thank you, Mayor and the City Commissioner. Thank you. Mayor, I have two questions for Annie. Hi. Could you explain what you meant by 1.5 immigrant?
 Absolutely. So I was born in Taiwan and I grew up here. I came here as a 10-year-old. So I went through the Portland Public School System. I went to Buckman, Fernwood, and Grant High School. So 1.5 meaning that...
 first generation is the immigrant generation and point five is well two is if you're born here so I'm kind of in between because I came here at a young age Thank you and where do you work now and where did you work before? I work at Portland Parks and Recreation now as the community engagement coordinator and so my goal every single day is to connect
 immigrant refugees and just underserved populations in Portland to connect to our parks, our community centers, and also be a part of the planning process for opening new parks and construction of new parks. And before Portland Parks and Recreation, I worked at IRCO, Immigrant Refugee Community Organization, doing a lot of community leadership capacity building.
 and also doing a lot of advocacy, so empowering community members, again, to be connected to local government like City Hall, Oregon State Legislature, Multnomah County budget processes, so that we, as a vibrant community that's growing, can see more diverse communities here at these types of spaces. Thank you. Yeah, thanks for asking. Very good.
 I just want to say quickly here that as we're sitting here celebrating the Taiwanese American Heritage Week, it is critical to understand that Taiwanese American innovation is American innovation. Taiwanese American heritage is a part of American heritage. And Taiwanese American history is part of American history. It's more important than ever, especially under the current White House administration, to cherish and celebrate diversity and inclusion.
 Celebrating diversity and inclusion is not a celebration of division, but rather a celebration of true American legacy. So again, we're very honored and humbled to be sitting here as Thomas Americans, and I want to thank the mayor and the city council for taking the time to proclaim the week. Very good. Thank you, and we appreciate your testimony. It's now my honor to be able to read a proclamation on behalf of the Portland City Council.
 Whereas our city of Portland has been continually renewed and enriched by communities of diverse backgrounds who make their journey from near and far to build a home here. And whereas there are more than 500,000 Taiwanese Americans in the United States, and in Portland it's the third fastest growing Asian American population.
 And whereas Taiwanese Americans have made enormous contributions to the diversity and prosperity of American society, preserving the core values of liberty, democracy, and human rights, and whereas Taiwanese Americans have been consistent and significant contributors to the advancement of tech industries, creative industries, and others,
 And whereas Taiwanese Americans can be proud of their roots and of their vital role in the continued growth of our nation and our city,
 And whereas the year 2018 also marks the 30th anniversary of the Portland Kaohsiung Sister City Association demonstrating a long friendship between Portland and Kaohsiung, Taiwan, and whereas during this special week Taiwanese Americans embrace their multicultural heritage and celebrate with all of Portland in the spirit of community that binds us together as one city.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 13th through May 19th, 2018 to be Taiwanese American Heritage Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you. We'll suspend the rules. Colleen? Commissioner Eudaly?
 Just like to thank you for being here and thank you for the contributions both cultural and economic and Innovative to our community and personally thank Steve Chen for bringing us all cat videos. I think we can agree Definitely has raised the quality of life of unhappiness of all Americans
 Very good. Would you mind if we took a photo right up here? Sure. Thank you. Just in front of the table. It's actually easier. Yeah, we can get more people in. Hello. Welcome. Please. Please, welcome. Thank you for being here. We've got people in the middle to hold this. That is the proclamation. Pretty good. All right. Ready? One, two, three. This way. One, two, three. Okay.
 okay i have another camera one two three one two three perfect thank you everybody thank you thank you material science that's yeah thank you so much appreciate it thank you very much thank you sir thank you for being here thank you
 All right, next item, 473, please. Authorize the transfer of density from Cully Park Community Garden, located at 5810 Northeast 72nd Avenue, to Sabin Community Development Corporation for the construction of needed housing units on adjacent property. Commissioner Fritz. Colleagues, I'm extremely excited to present this exciting technical and...
 one key way of providing affordable housing.
 It combines all of my passions of housing, parks, and planning. So I'm very excited about this. As the most recent Portland Parks and Recreation Commissioner, I was asked to donate development rights on Portland Parks and Recreation's Cully Community Garden to Sabin Community Development Corporation so that they can build more affordable housing units on their adjacent lot. This will help build housing to help more families and bring down the overall cost of the development.
 And Christina Nieves on my staff will explain the technicalities of how this works and what we're doing. Thank you, Commissioner and Mayors. Mayor. My name is Christina Nieves, Office of Commissioner Fritz for the record. As Commissioner Fritz said, this action would transfer development rights from Cully Community Garden to Sabin Community Development for affordable housing units. Carla, could you please pull up the map? Thank you. Thank you.
 As you can see, Sabin is located just south of the community garden. Essentially, this ordinance provides the ability to transfer two more dwelling units to the Sabin development to increase the affordable housing in that area. And just to interject, all of the brown part, we are rezoning to open space as well because that's Thomas Cully Park. So to orient folks, this is in the Cully neighborhood, and Killingsworth is the main cross streets along here. 70 seconds, I believe, is the...
 residential street. Thank you, Christina. And this is time sensitive because the zoning, as you were saying, of the community garden is scheduled to change effective this month. I will now hand it off to our community partners, Lily Brown from Saban Community Development and Cameron Harrington from Living Cully. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of the commission. And I'd like to thank Commissioner Fritz and her staff, Christina, and also Pooja Bhatt for their responsiveness to this opportunity. So I work for Living Cully, which is a community development coalition based in the Cully neighborhood. And I wanted to tell you how we found out about this opportunity in the first place. Last summer, I got a phone call from a realtor,
 who said that his client was selling a property adjacent to the new Cully Park that Verde, one of the Living Cully partners, is currently building on 72nd Avenue. And is there any way that we could find a way to buy it for an affordable housing project before we put it on the market?
 They reached out to us because the wife of the realtor had heard a story on OPB radio about Living Cully's advocacy for tenant rights in the Cully neighborhood. And so from there, we started knocking on every door of every affordable housing provider and CDC. And we were thrilled.
 thrilled when Luli and her colleagues at Sabin CDC stepped up and said, yes, we'd like to figure out a way to add affordable homes right here adjacent to the park. So these homes that are going to be developed, their backyard is going to be a 25-acre public park. Their side yard is going to be the community garden. So it's going to be an incredible spot for families to make their homes.
 When we started looking more into this property initially, I think even before we reached out to Sabin, we realized that the Parks Bureau had the community garden right next door that had several units of residential density attached to it because it was still an R3 property up until the time that the comp plan changes next week, I think.
 And so we thought, well, if we could get some of that density transferred next door, we could make affordable housing opportunities available for even more families than would otherwise be allowed on this land. So that was really our motivation for making the connection with Commissioner Fritz and the Parks Bureau. Okay.
 In addition to creating more opportunities, the ability to add density specifically for affordable housing projects makes it more likely for those projects to pencil out because a CDC like Sabin can spread the land acquisition cost across more units. And so being able to do that specifically for an affordable housing project
 and not allowing that ability for a market rate developer makes non-profit CDC, affordable housing development, more feasible and makes it easier for them to compete on the open market. So we really hope that this will be a precedent, a replicable model where the city can look at other properties owned by all of its bureaus that have unused residential density, even on properties that are never going to be used for housing, like a parks community garden, and see,
 And really, I think an inventory could be done of what other instances where this same dynamic exists, where that density could be made available for non-profit organizations.
 housing developers in order to create more opportunity, especially in a place adjacent to an incredible new amenity where not only do we want low-income families to have access to housing at that location, but we know that the development of this park is going to raise property values and increase displacement pressures in the vicinity. So being able to add
 affordable homes right next door to the park now is a win-win for everyone. So thank you very much, Commissioner Fritz, for helping us make this happen.
 Good morning. I'm Luli Brown. I am the Housing Director at Sabin CDC, and we would like to thank you, the Commission, and the Portland Housing Bureau for your vigorous efforts to preserve and enhance Portland's affordable housing. In particular, this morning, we'd like to thank Commissioner Fritz and her staff for shepherding the zoning density transfer through the planning process.
 And what I would like to share with you are some details about Sabin and the populations that we serve.
 Established in 1993, Sabin CDC has worked to provide stable, affordable housing and community programs to thousands of families who would otherwise have been displaced by the forces of gentrification in northeast Portland. Currently, our resident demographics resemble what northeast Portland looked like in 1990. So our population is approximately 70% African American, and most of whom have lived in the neighborhood for over 20 years.
 Sabin CDC also established Portland's first land trust and limited equity lease purchase programs and developed 115 units of rental housing that allows low-income families and individuals to stay in their neighborhoods. It is incumbent upon Sabin as a small community-based organization to create unique partnerships and approaches to...
 the development of affordable housing. When Living Cully approached Sabin with the idea of purchasing the property and increasing its potential density, we welcomed the opportunity as a chance to further our mission and provide much needed affordable home ownership opportunities in the Cully neighborhood.
 Also, allowing for a nine-unit housing development as opposed to seven units of housing will ensure that this project is feasible and sustainable, and we look forward to its fruition. Thank you again for your consideration in support of affordable housing. Thank you. And are you still planning to do the family-sized single-family homes? That's actually the point of limiting it to nine units as opposed to ten.
 because that will allow us to do three-bedroom units, which are in huge demand but have very little opportunity at this point in time, in part because folks can't get the developments like that to pencil. Really, really exciting. Thank you. I have a question. Mayor. Please, Commissioner Udair. Thank you.
 Why couldn't this property be up zoned to R1 and you could double the number of units on it? Any thoughts on that?
 Well, first of all, it would have had to, upzoning it to R1 is an expensive process. It costs approximately $30,000. Not while we're in the middle of the comp plan. If we had known about this property about a year and a half ago and we could have submitted it with the new comp plan, we would have been all over it.
 Yes, I know, sigh. Yeah, deep sigh. Thank you. It's a relatively small parcel, though. It is. It's almost 17,000 square feet. Yeah, 16,500, 17,000 square feet. And it also, because of the restrictions of the street width, I would be very leery about doubling the density there. I think that given the neighborhood, it just...
 As a small community development organization, we want to be good partners. We want to be good neighbors, and that's part of our mission. And they want to be single family. So as Louie just said, we could have transferred another unit to get 10 units, but really nine is what fits to the kind of development that they are planning to do that will be family friendly. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman.
 Well, this is great. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz and the Parks Bureau and Sabin CDC for being so innovative. New Daily. Aye. Fritz. Thanks, Lily Brown, Sabin Community Development Cooperation, Cameron Harrington and Living Curley.
 Thank you to Christina Nieves and Pooja Bhatt on my staff, and Brett Horner in the Portland Parks and Recreation, Linda Law, the City Attorney's Office, Commissioner Stopp at Udaily's staff in Development Services, who are also being very helpful in figuring this out. I just want to take a pause here.
 This is going to change things throughout the city. This one request, this opportunistic looking at how can we increase density next to a park when we're changing the zoning anyway? How can we make sure that we don't waste those units? That led to our whole concept of, oh, we could do this downtown as well. So in the comprehensive plan process, the central city plan, we have said that development transfer can happen from open space in the future.
 We have said that in the central city. So that's going to open up hundreds of units of housing, which the city can decide how it is allocated, and which will make inclusionary housing and a lot of other affordable housing feasible just like this.
 We're also, Cameron, since you mentioned it, let's get it in before the comprehensive plan changes, we're going to do another zoning code change later this year saying that for all the properties that were previously residentially zoned and are now going to be open spaced outside of the central city, that those units don't just disappear. Okay.
 So we'll be able to do that so that we can do this again in other locations. So thank you for your innovative thinking. It is going to, I think, make a huge difference for affordable housing throughout our city. Ike. Wheeler. So I am unabashedly a huge fan of this. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, to you and your team and the other bureaus who worked so hard, and to all of you for your efforts. This is taking error seriously.
 and turning it into housing for people who desperately need it. I think it is nothing short of brilliant. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next, let's see here, what is next? Let's say 476.
 Appoint Shea Flaherty-Benton, Paul Delsman, Helen Hollyhunter, and Lauren Golden-Jones to the Development Review Advisory Committee for terms to expire May 8, 2021. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. The Development Review Advisory Committee, fondly known as DRAC.
 was established in June 2001 as the City's primary advisory body regarding development review. The DRAC seeks to foster a timely, predictable, and accountable development review process and advocates for the consistent and fair application of regulations. The DRAC's 17 members represent groups with interests in development and development review processes.
 DRAC members are appointed by the City Council to one three-year term with the possibility of serving a second three-year term. Four individuals have been nominated to fill vacant positions on the DRAC as previous members who've completed their terms and or stepped down. These four nominees bring significant experience in the development industry and familiarity with Portland's development review processes.
 Appointing these four individuals will bring the draft closer to full strength and allow it to continue its work on behalf of Portland. These four new appointments are Shea Flaherty-Bettine, who has been nominated for the small business position, Paul Delsman, who has been nominated for the large construction contractors position,
 Helen Holly Huntley has been nominated for the Frequent Development Review Customer's Position. And Lauren Golden-Jones has been nominated for the Large Developer's Position. I don't believe any of them are in the room today. But we have someone from BDS or...
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Mark Fedders. I'm a Senior Management Analyst with the Bureau of Development Services, and I provide staff support to the Development Review Advisory Committee. And I want to thank Commissioner Udaly for the summary of these four appointments.
 I would note with these four appointments, there would still be two vacant positions remaining on the DRAC, one representing citywide neighborhood interests, the other representing minority construction contractors and development professionals. And we are actively seeking applications and reviewing applications for those two positions. So hopefully we will be back soon with recommended candidates for those positions as well. Thank you.
 Very good. Commissioner Fritz? How would somebody step up to volunteer for those two positions? How would they go about applying? They would contact me, actually. Or they can go through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement as well on the ONI website. There is information there. The city's boards and applications form is available there. They can submit that to ONI or to me at BDS. Could presumably call 823-4000 and ask for that information.
 I'm sorry? They could call 823-4000 and volunteer and they would be put in touch with you. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. Very good. I'll entertain a motion. Move it up the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Please call the roll. Well, thanks, Mark, for your work, and thanks to the new members of the Development Review Advisory Committee. They're very important. Aye. Udaly?
 Thank you, Shea, Paul, Helen and Lauren, wherever you are. I look forward to working with you all. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for staffing the committee and thank you, Commissioner Udaly, these great appointments and the discussions.
 The Development Review Advisory Committee is set up to be a balanced group with development interests and neighbourhood interests, so it's particularly important to have somebody who's representing city-wide neighbourhood associations and also the minority contractors. So I do hope if folks are watching this and think that might be interesting. It's a very interesting committee and very important in advising how development services spends – it raises money, spends its money, and just –
 just various policy issues about development services. I'm very happy to support it.
 Wheeler. These are great appointees. I mean, if you read through their bios and the statements they've provided, these are very, very strong appointees. And I'm always gratified that people with this level of skills and, frankly, people who are so busy are willing to step forward and serve with us. So I'm grateful to them, and I vote aye. The appointment is approved. Thank you. Next item is also an appointment, item number 477.
 appoint Vivian Satterfield to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners. Colleagues, today I have the privilege of appointing a community member to the Home Forward Board of Commissions.
 Vivian Satterfield, currently who is the Deputy Executive Director at Opal Environmental Justice of Oregon. She's had years of experience with mission-based work, creating affordable housing opportunities, economic development, and community building. She believes a home is the most important place. It's where we all start and where we all end our days.
 Having safe, decent, and affordable housing is obviously an essential foundation for any individual to actualize their full potential in our community. And so we are lucky today to have Vivian Satterfield, who is the end. And we have Michael here, the Executive Director of Home Forward. Michael Bonacore is also here. Michael, why don't you come up and be acknowledged?
 And if you could just briefly, Vivian, first of all, we're so grateful for you stepping forward. I appreciate it very much. Could you just tell us a little bit about your work in affordable housing and economic development and what you hope to accomplish being part of this important committee? Thank you.
 This is such an exciting day for me, so thank you so much, and thank you to Home Forward and the current Board of Commissioners for considering me and bringing me on board as the newest commissioner. I was in reflection of this last night as I was at the Planning and Sustainability Commission offering testimony on the residential infill project.
 I arrived here in Portland 10 years ago and got my start actually in affordable housing working with Nick Sovey and the crew at Rose CDC in Outer Southeast. So affordable housing was a critical issue for low-income residents and communities of color 10 years ago and clearly
 clearly from this morning's agenda, items in front of you is also a critical issue today as well. So I've been grounded in community since that time. Now, of course, continuing my work at the intersection of transportation and housing at Opal Environmental Justice, Oregon. And so I'm just so excited to be bringing
 that perspective and adding to the great capacity that's at Home Forward. I believe in the leadership and the work of Home Forward and, of course, in the mission that everyone does deserve a safe, affordable place to call home here. Thanks, Vivian. Michael, I don't know if you have anything to add, but you're a smart guy. You always have something important to say.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Michael Bonacore. I'm the Executive Director of Home Forward. I would love to just offer the thought that it is my belief that housing authorities should be standing shoulder to shoulder with community advocacy groups around the issues of affordable housing and social and racial justice and all of the...
 that impact folks both who receive our housing assistance and those who need it.
 And unfortunately, that dynamic is not common between housing authorities and the advocacy community. Often that is adversarial to the extent that I can ever influence any of my colleagues across the country that we share a commitment to the same population and should be working side by side. I will make that effort.
 And, you know, I think that that is important both in terms of organizational relationships but also in the very fabric of the organization in our staff and in our governing body and, you know, commissioners who have,
 and experience in community organizing and racial and social justice and other justice movements are as critical to, I think, well-rounded, effective governance as justice.
 you know, backgrounds in development and real estate finance. I feel very fortunate to have a well-rounded, passionate board who's really committed to our mission. I've had the pleasure of knowing and admiring Vivian's work for years in the community. She's had some opportunity already to engage with our board and with our staff, and I can tell you that...
 All of us are thrilled to welcome her aboard. So thank you for considering her nomination. Thank you, both colleagues. Any further conversation? So this got put on as a resolution, and I'm not sure how that happened. That's my fault. So I will ask if there's any. It's required to be. It is required to be. Very good. Okay, good. We're doing what we're supposed to. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Call the roll. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank Mayor's Office and Home Forward for recruiting Vivian to serve on the Home Forward board. I think she is a very qualified candidate. Not only does she possess a deep, substantive knowledge of housing, everything that's housing and land use, but she has a great background.
 demeanor. I don't know how to say it, but you're very effective in your ability to, I think, to talk to people on all sides of an issue and to find solutions, find common ground often as well. So I'm sure Home Forward will be well served by your skills and abilities. So thank you for serving. Hi. Uday Lee. Hi.
 Well, I could just reiterate what Commissioner Saltzman just said. I'll just thank you for your willingness to serve, and thank you, Michael, for your commitment to bringing more focus on racial and social justice. And I have to say, although the challenge ahead of us is daunting and the climate is surreal,
 that we are functioning in right now. I honestly feel more hopeful now than I did a couple years ago about our ability to kind of rise to this occasion and meet the challenges. Fritz? Well, thank you for your willingness to add yet another responsibility to all the things that you do in our community and your work
 depth of experience and your knowledge of the intersection of transportation, equity, land use planning, housing is going to be invaluable. And I really appreciate your willing to spend the time necessary to pull all those things together in partnership with the commissioners on the board. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Vivian, thank you for being willing to serve on the Board of Commissioners. I obviously am a huge fan of yours, and I think you're a fabulous addition to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners. So thank you for your willingness to serve. I'm sure at some point somewhere you've told somebody no when it comes to serving the community, but I have not seen it yet. You have just unbounded energy and unity.
 You are extremely knowledgeable about these issues, and I think you bring an excellent perspective to the table. And so I look forward to many years of incredible service on your part. And as the mayor of the city, I'm very grateful in your willingness to serve. Michael, I don't want you to miss the spotlight here either. You've done an exceptional job. Thank you.
 at Home Forward. And I know you have big plans for the future, and we all look forward to continuing to work with you on those plans. So thank you. You're the right person at the right place at the right time. And now with Vivian on the team, that only strengthens it. So thank you. I vote aye. The appointment's approved. Thank you both. Thank you. Next up, item 478.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder, and provide payment for construction of the Sunnyside North Reconstruction and Green Streets, project number E10367.
 for an estimated cost of $9.9 million. Very good. And colleagues, obviously Commissioner Fish had to step aside, but we have Brandon Wilson, engineer, and Scott Gibson, principal engineer from the Bureau of Environmental Services, and they're here with a brief presentation about the ordinance. Thank you, folks, for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you, most. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. For the record, my name is Scott Gibson.
 And I'm here to ask for approval for a construction contract on the Sunnyside North Reconstruction Project. Next slide, please, Brandon. The Sunnyside North Project is a part of our Neighborhood to the River Program. These program goals are to plan and implement collection system projects that provide both watershed health and sewer system improvements through innovation, collaboration, and integration of efforts.
 Using this project delivery method makes sense in the Sunnyside North Basin, working collaboratively to develop and implement project solutions to most efficiently deliver the greatest system, community, and watershed benefits.
 Project goals are best achieved through an integrated planning and implementation approach, which includes a combination of capital projects, private property retrofits, vegetated improvements, and education, community outreach, and public involvement, all delivered through an equity lens. The three pictures we show are...
 our standard green streets. We also have some community involvements including planting of the green streets and street trees in this program. And the lower photo shows what we call our private property retrofit where we get volunteers from the community to retrofit their own private property to make it more sustainable with our system needs. And with that I'll turn it over to Brandon Wilson, our project manager. Thank you Scott. Good morning, my name is Brandon Wilson for the record.
 This project is primarily capacity-driven with goals to reduce basement sewer backup risk and reduce storm flows entering the combined sewer. This is accomplished by upsizing undersized pipes and constructing vegetated stormwater facilities, both curb extensions and planters. On the screen you can see an overview of the project area. The geographic location is bounded roughly by 20th to the west.
 Cesar Chavez to the east, north is Stark, and the southern boundary is roughly Taylor. You can see the Lone First Cemetery is nearby, as well as Laurelhurst Park to the north. Let's see, so there's also a subset project area that we've added six additional stormwater facilities that will be combined as part of this project around 30th and Market.
 i would also like to note that there is night work for one block on in this project along 25th between belmont and morrison and we anticipate that taking three weeks and we only have one block because of the early coordination we've done with bureau of transportation and to minimize night work and other impacts along belmont let's see so this project is represented recommended through
 as part of the bes systems plan 2012 a little bit more detail about some of the scope 9 700 linear feet of mainline pipe down to 8 inch and up to 48 inch and again it's mostly capacity driven but there are some poor condition pipes that we're we're fixing as well as well as 13 new sewer extension mains and the third point is the 33 stormwater facilities as part of this project
 Public involvement, our public involvement representative is Debbie Castleton. And there has been several mailings. There have been several mailings sent throughout the Project Life informing surrounding community of updated project information. Several neighborhood meetings, public meetings, including those within the Neighborhood Association, allowing for education and interaction.
 and as well as continued ongoing close coordination with residents and businesses regarding specific concerns and impacts. Project schedule and budget, you can see that the ordinance is for $9.9 million. The advertisement we're anticipating next month, level of confidence is high. Purchasing agent to report back to council after this with the lowest responsible bid. That's after the advertisement.
 Notice to proceed in construction, if everything goes well, is this October. And construction duration is approximately 15 months. And that concludes the presentation. Are there any questions? Yeah. So all the curb extension work will be fully compliant ADA, result in ADA-compliant curbs as well? Absolutely. Yeah, that's definitely our intent. Thank you.
 We're also working very closely with Bureau of Transportation to understand the interaction of our curb extensions with the ADA ramps. And we've expanded the level of involvement we do on ADA ramps to we do a lot of repaving. And so as you repave, you have opportunities to fix or improve ramps. And we're working on some ways to work better with PBOT so that they can prioritize where those improvements get made. That's good.
 Very good. Is there any testimony on this item? No one else signed up. All right. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, gentlemen. Next item, item number 4E.
 Accept bid of R&R General Contractors, Inc. for the Southwest Vermont Street, Southwest 65th to Southwest Capital Highway Pavement Rehabilitation Project for $2,434,922. Good. We've got Larry coming up. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to R&R General Contractors. Sorry, I need to get your name for the record.
 Well, see, I thought you knew me by name. I know you. For the record, I am Larry Palat. I can't even say my own last name. I am Larry Palat. Let's try all over. You've got to start all over. Okay. For the record, I am Larry Palat, Procurement Manager.
 You have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to R&R General Contractors for the Southwest Vermont Street Southwest 165th or 65th to Southwest Capital Highway Project or Pavement Rehab Project. The engineer's estimate on this project was $2.8 million, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate.
 Bids were opened on March 15, 2018. Two bids were received in response to the solicitation. An R&R general contractor is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $2,434,922.09, where they get the nine cents, I don't know, which is actually 13% under the engineer's estimate.
 The Bureau of Transportation Procurement Services had identified an aspirational goal for certified, disadvantaged, minority, women-owned, and emerging small business enterprises subcontractor and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction cost for the project.
 There is a total of $250,703, which is only 10.3% of the DMWESB certified subcontractor participation on this project. Apportioned as follows. Disadvantaged business enterprises, $172,620 flagging and trucking, and emerging small business, $78,083 concrete cutting and signage.
 However, R&R General Contractors is a state-certified minority business enterprise contractor, which makes the total DMW ESP participation for this project, including the prime contractor, 54.24%.
 R&R General Contractors is in compliance with all of the City's requirements for contracting. Another small note, R&R General Contractors is a member of our Prime Contractor Development Program, which has open opportunities or confined opportunities for projects under a million. However, this project, they were successful bidders in the open market against all other contractors regardless of size.
 It's kind of a nice thing for our program people to grow out of the program. Council has any particular questions relative to the procurement aspect? I can answer those. I don't think there's anybody from transportation here. Colleagues, Commissioner Fritz. I actually have a very detailed question, thanks to Janine Gates on my staff. The presentation said that the total amount,
 A disadvantaged business participation is 63.5, and you just said 54 point something else. So I was just wondering. Unless I did the math wrong, I'm pretty sure it's 54.24. Maybe you could just get back to me on that because what's in the written documents. I'm sorry. I will certainly clarify that, Commissioner. I absolutely will. But I did the math this morning, and maybe I missed it.
 I don't know if it is incorrect in the documentation, if that needs to be changed as a scrivener's error or not. I'm just – I'd be interested to know. Absolutely. Either way, it's very impressive. Thank you. And I will fix it this afternoon and let your office know. Thank you. Further questions? I'll entertain a motion. Move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Saltzman.
 Well, this is entitled Pavement Rehabilitation Project. It's really much more than that on southwest Vermont. This is a project that is being funded under the voter-approved Fixing Our Streets program. And not only will it be rehabilitating the pavement, they will be adding sidewalks along sections of Vermont. They will be adding widening curb lanes on the other side of Vermont, adding bike lanes, and fixing curb ramps as well. So it's a great project. All right.
 You daily. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you, Commissioner Salford, for highlighting that this is so much more than a paving project. In fact, it's really exciting because it goes by the Southwest Community Center, which has long lacked adequate access, sidewalks, et cetera. So this is a project that the Southwest Neighborhoods Inc. Transportation Committee has been dogging for a long time. I also have to credit Mayor Sam Adams, who put money into the sidewalks that have already been done. So little by little, we're patching together projects.
 Some very challenging streets in southwest Portland where stormwater impacts have to be considered and often greatly increase the cost. So I'm happy to hear that this one came in at 13% less than estimated. Thanks to everybody for your good work. Aye. Wheeler. Larry, this is fantastic.
 Thank you. I take full credit. Absolutely. As well you should. As well you should. Commissioner Saltzman, thank you. Commissioner Fritz, thank you. This is really great work. And while there will undoubtedly be some inconvenience while the work is going on, at the end of the day I think it will be a very, very positive, transformational, and well-received set of improvements in the community. So thank you for your thoughtful, holistic approach to this. I think it's great. Thank you.
 I vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Last but not least, item 481.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide for payment for the 1900 building toilets project for an estimated $1,325,792. Very good. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Randy Salik. I am Facilities Construction Project Manager with OMF. You have before you another ADA compliance project today.
 This project is a request for competitive solicitation for our construction bid process for the 1900 building toilets project. The basis of this project is indeed an ADA improvement project to meet current code.
 In addition, the project includes plumbing and lighting energy-efficient upgrades. We've also added, as you'll recall from our previous meetings, gender-neutral restrooms to the building. Each floor will have a gender-neutral restroom. We currently only have one.
 a restroom that's being used as a gender-neutral restroom now. That's on the second floor. That will change for ADA improvements, but it will remain a gender-neutral restroom. We will add to the other floor, so each floor will have a gender-neutral restroom. We are also including finish upgrades per BDS's request, and BDS is funding the finish upgrades on the project.
 We will be doing an adult for janitor closets with mop sinks. I discovered, as I previously mentioned in an earlier meeting, that we do not have any janitor closets with mop sinks. I am reusing the current closets, which are really just storage closets for the gender-neutral toilet rooms, so we're going to do an adult to see what the pricing comes in for those to add three to the building. The engineer's estimate for the project is $1,325,792.
 I think that's really it. It's a pretty basic maintenance project, but it's going to be great to get the ADA improvements as well as energy efficient and gender neutral into the project. Any questions? Very good. Colleagues, questions for Ann? Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Thank you for your work on this. It's great to have it happening. Aye. Fritz?
 Basic services and done in a really splendid fashion. Thank you very much for your work. Aye. Wheeler. Well, first of all, thank you for your great work. Second of all, thank you for your patience. You've been sitting here a long time. Again. Yes. Yes. I don't know how that keeps happening to you, Rand. Thank you for noticing. Thank you for your patience.
 I just assume you're learning a lot, and pretty soon you will be the most educated employee of the great city of Portland, Oregon, sitting through all of this testimony. But thank you. This is really important work, and it's solid work, and we have you to thank for it. So thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Great. Thank you all. Thank you. And we're adjourned. Wednesday, May 16, 2018. Carla, if you could call the roll, please.
 Fish. Here. Saltzman. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And Robert, if you could read the rules, please. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Very good. Thank you, Carla. Could you please read item 482? 42, approval of the fiscal year 2018-19 budget for the City of Portland. Very good. I'm now convening this meeting of the City of Portland Budget Committee. Thank you.
 I'm now opening a hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. This hearing is being held by the City Council of Portland, Oregon, in compliance with the provisions of the State Revenue Sharing Regulations, ORS 221.770.
 It's to allow citizens to comment on the possible use of these funds in conjunction with the annual budget process. As proposed for council adoption, the fiscal year 2018-19 budget anticipates receipts totaling $20,031,436 from state revenue sharing.
 As has been the case in prior years, it's proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support fire prevention and police patrol services. Is there anyone here today that wishes to be heard on this subject? I'm going to go to the sign-up sheets for this meeting.
 This is just for the state revenue hearing. There will be time for testimony on the full budget later. Yes, very good. Okay, so I'm now closing this hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. And now I'll turn it over to Budget Director Andrew Scott. Great. Thank you, Mayor. Andrew Scott, Director of the City Budget Office. Andrew, before we go any further, I want to publicly congratulate you. I've already sworn at you behind closed doors.
 but I want to publicly congratulate you on what is a really tremendous opportunity over at Metro. And they could not have picked.
 a better person for that role, and we're all very proud of you. I have always said that our objective at the City of Portland is to recruit top-notch people, cultivate their leadership skills, and then have them go out to the rest of the community, the rest of the world, and use those skills, and you are an excellent example of that. So we're sorry to lose you, but I'm really honored personally that I've had the opportunity to work with you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate that. I'm excited about the opportunity and sad to be leaving the city after 15 years as well. We live and breathe budget, so we get a little bit emotional about it. So as my last budget, thank you for setting me up to be a little verklempt as we go through this. So we are here to approve the budget today.
 And there are a number of steps that we're going to go through. And so I'm going to outline those a little bit, then we'll go through each one of those steps in order. And as those who have been through this process in prior years remember, it does get a little bit confusing. You are acting as the budget committee. So there are a number of things in local budget law we need to do. One of the first things was to hold that hearing on state shared revenue, which we just did. And so that is done and taken care of. And I want to remind you a little bit about the steps we've taken so far in the budget process.
 On April 30th, the mayor proposed his budget publicly and announced it in the press conference. The actual proposed budget document was delivered to council on Monday, May 7th, and then council convened as the city budget committee on Thursday, May 10th, to officially hear the mayor's message in his proposed budget and also to take public testimony in a hearing. Okay.
 And those are steps that are necessary to follow before we get to this approved budget stage. Today, council is going to consider any changes to the proposed budget that the mayor put forward. Those changes are going to take two different forms. There are changes that have been included in the document that was filed and that you have before you right now. Those are referred to in the change memo part of the document.
 There are also changes that can be introduced today through amendment, and we have a number of those already that have been proposed, and anyone on the Budget Committee can propose amendments as we go through this process today as well.
 Those individual amendments will be put on the table, seconded, and considered and voted on individually. All of that's going to come back together at the end. So, again, here's how the process is going to happen. First, we're going to need agreement from the Budget Committee to consider the changes that are in that change memo. That's going to be the first action you take. Second, we're going to open the floor for those amendments. And as I mentioned, each one will be seconded in motion and seconded and then voted on separately.
 Third, we'll need to take an action to put all of the change memo adjustments and the new amendments on the table for public testimony. That is not a vote to approve the budget. It will feel a little bit like a vote to approve the budget. That is just a vote to get everything on the table so that the public knows exactly what they're testifying on. At that point, we open the floor for public testimony. Further amendments can be made after public testimony occurs if necessary. And then finally, you'll come back together to actually approve the budget.
 and then you will also today there will also be approval of the tax levies and then as a reminder after today the budget goes to the Tax Supervising and Conservation Commission they are required under state law they have authority to approve our budget as well so they will spend 20 days reviewing it asking questions we'll have a hearing where there will be additional public testimony that hearing will be on June 6th and then we will come back together one final time June 7th to adopt the budget
 So with that, we will sort of go back to the script. And at this point, Mayor, we just need a motion from you to consider changes to the proposed budget as are presented in the memo filed. Approval of the budget of the city is poured. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second from Commissioner Fritz. And so at this point...
 At this point, we go ahead and talk a little bit about what's in there. We had a work session just this past Monday, and so we went through in some detail. So I'm not going to repeat that and go through that in detail. I will just let you know that, you know, in total...
 The approved budget before you is about $5.1 billion. The general fund discretionary is about $553 million with $670 million total general fund and 6,576 positions. That's what was in the proposed budget. In terms of the changes that were in the memo as filed, it does add 20.58 FTE in total across the city.
 It adds about $12.1 million of additional one-time. The bulk of that is carryover, so the actions you took in the spring bump to carry over, we're following those through now. And then, of course, there are a number of non-general fund changes in that change memo as well. I'm happy to take any specific questions about what's in that change memo, but, again, we had this discussion on Monday. And if there's no further discussion of that, we can move on to the amendments process. Thank you.
 So at this time, we allow for individual amendments to the change memo. It can come from any member of the Budget Committee. Each amendment should note the amount, the bureau, the purpose, and the funding source. We do have a list of amendments that were given to us beforehand, and we can probably start there and then open the floor for any additional amendments. Very good. Colleagues, I'd like to...
 Move to amend attachment D, specifically the budget note titled Community Service Officer Program. This address is a Scrivener's error. The note in the OMF section should replicate the language that's currently under the police section. The language currently reads as follows. It says Community Service Officer Program.
 Council directs the Police Bureau and the Office of Management and Finance to ensure that the Community Service Officer Program is implemented by January 1, 2019, beginning in the fiscal year 2018-2019.
 Community service, I'm sorry, beginning in fiscal year 2018-19, the Police Bureau and OMF will provide joint quarterly written reports to council offices on the progress towards implementation, including updates on labor negotiations, hiring, CSO training, and CSO staffing, and identify strategies to overcome any delays in the implementation timeline.
 Do I have a second? Second. We have a second from Commissioner Fish. A question. Please. You referenced the Office of Management and Finance. Is that specifically the Bureau of Human Resources or the other entities within the Office of Management and Finance that are responsible for this? That's a great question, Director Scott.
 It may involve other pieces of OMF, but I think that was the intent, was mainly around BHR. Very good. And I'll check with CAO Reinhardt. Oh, he is here. Tom, did that get that correct? Yes? Good. Okay, he's shaking his head yes. Mayor, I have an amendment. Excuse me, I'm in the middle of speaking. I hadn't caught that issue before. It is a bit odd having one bureau looking after implementation of a program in another bureau.
 That's just something to maybe think about. I may be misunderstanding your question. So this budget note actually will show up both under OMF and under the Police Bureau. It will be duplicated in both places. Right. But essentially, OMF is helping to provide the written quarterly reports. So just checking that, that actually means the Bureau of Human Resources. Yes, I believe that's the case.
 Thank you. I think the— Paul is nodding, yes. He's perfectly sat, so I can't see him behind that column. But, yes, the chief administrative officer is affirming that. Thank you. Very good. Mayor, I have a motion. Commissioner Fish. I have a motion to amend Attachment D to add the following budget note, titled Street Sweeping.
 During FY 2018-19, BES and PBOT shall work together to define PBOT's total cost of system-wide street cleaning services under the interagency and detail the cost of street cleaning arterial streets for BES to remain compliant with MS4 permits.
 BES and PBOT shall also define the quantifiable benefits of street sweeping to the stormwater system overall. Based upon the results of this analysis, BES shall propose appropriate realignments to the PBOT-BES interagency in its requested budget for FY 2019-20. Second. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I move to amend Attachment D, specifically the budget note titled ADA Compliance CAL Adjustment, to increase the CAL, which, remind me, Andrew, it stands for Calston. Oh, I'm sorry, current appropriation level. Thank you. Current appropriation level, thank you. To be requested by parks from $500,000 to $1 million.
 Budget note will now say ADA compliance Cal adjustment. The City Council directs the Portland Bureau of Transportation and Portland Parks and Recreation to request general fund increases of $1 million to their financial year 19-20 current appropriation level and then use it for ADA compliance. Second.
 And then secondly, I move to amend the business license tax. I think Commissioner Daly may have an additional amendment on this, but let's move with this one first. The current language says that the council commits to avoid further increases in the business license tax, and I would suggest we change that. I request we change that to we'll strive to avoid further increases in the business license tax. Second. That's seconded.
 Commissioner Fischer, is that good? Yes, Commissioner Fischer has seconded that. So those are my amendments. Very good. Commissioner Udalli. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, I'd like to move to Amendment, Amend Attachment D to add the following budget note. Portland Police Bureau Overtime. The fiscal year 2018-19 adopted budget includes new ongoing funding for 49 new officer positions that will help reduce the Bureau's reliance on backfill overtime.
 Council directs the Portland Police Bureau to continue to provide a monthly report of Bureau overtime usage, but further directs that this monthly report be enhanced with an online dynamic dashboard to act as management tool for Council to track Bureau overtime usage, call volume, and crime rates.
 Council also directs that the Bureau perform an annual evaluation of its overtime usage that identifies any structural overtime usage issues, outlines management strategies undertaken to minimize reliance on overtime, and evaluates the impact of additional officer positions once deployed, such that future conversations around adding sworn positions are data-driven and informed by quantifiable impacts on performance measures. Second. Second.
 Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I make a motion to increase...
 I think Commissioner Udailey still has the... I'm sorry. I had a second item that was left off this list, and I've been attempting to clarify why it's not on the list, but I'll just read it. Commissioner Udailey. It's a motion to strike the budget note regarding the business license tax increase. I'm moving to strike the BLT budget note because I don't support amending the BLT
 if any other tax should pass, and I don't want to limit any future city council's options. Second. We have a motion and a second. Commissioner Saltzman. Thanks, Mayor. I offer an amendment to allocate $60,000 of one-time general fund resources to my office to fund legal assistance for victims of domestic violence, in particular immigration legal assistance. Thank you.
 The funding source of this ad will be a $60,000 one-time reduction to general fund contingency with correlating amendments to attachment B, C, and E as necessary. Second. I have a clarifying question. It's not determined that the oversight of the Gateway Domestic Violence Center will continue to be within the Office of Public, the Commissioner of Public Affairs. Is that correct? Yes, I think that's correct. Thank you.
 So we might want to consider whether that language should be amended to – Well, this is a one-time appropriation, and I'll be here for at least half of that fiscal year. So you'll get it out the door before you're gone? Yeah, you'll get it out the door. Okay. Thank you. I would also say that this would – the program, the Gateway Center, is in the Commissioner of Public Affairs budget in the 18-19 budget. If council were to move it, the additional funding would move as well. Okay. Great. Thank you.
 All right. Is that all of the individual amendments, colleagues? I think that's it. Director Scott? Okay. At this point, Council will – every amendment's been moved and seconded, so they're on the table. And at this point, Council should go through and vote on each individual amendment. You can take them in this order or any order that you desire. Why don't we just take them in the same order we received them? So I will call the roll.
 on what I'll just call Mayor Wheeler amendment. This is the Scribner's error around the community service officer program. Is there any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. The next is Commissioner Fish's amendment regarding street sweeping. Call the roll. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Next is Commissioner Fritz's amendment regarding ADA compliance current appropriation level adjustments. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Dissent.
 The amendment, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. May I suggest we defer voting on my amendments on the business tax to see if Commissioner Udaile passes? That is acceptable. We will hold off on that. So we will go to Commissioner Udaile's first motion, which is regarding Portland Police Bureau overtime. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment passes. The next is Commissioner Udaly's amendment with regard to the budget note regarding to the business licensing fee. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. No. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 I'm going to support this because although I appreciate, and it was absolutely necessary for the Mayor to be discussing with the Portland Business Alliance and others about the business license tax increase, it is the right of the Council to, after taking public testimony, set that license fee. So I believe that we should not be...
 Well, one, we can't tie future councils or even this council. And second of all, that the mayor being the mayor will do the right thing depending on what happens. And so I support this amendment. Aye. Wheeler. I vote no. The motion carries. And then the last one was Commissioner Saltzman's amendment with regard to the Gateway Domestic Violence Center. Please call the roll. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment carries. I believe that's it. I believe Commissioner Fritz's amendment is still on the table and needs to either be... I withdraw that amendment. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz has withdrawn her amendment. Thank you, Commissioner. Great.
 Thank you. So at this point, we need a motion and second and a vote to approve all of the budget adjustments included in attachments B, C, D, and of the memo as amended as you just did. Again, this is not a vote to approve the budget, just to get everything on the table at once for public testimony. So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Carla, please call the roll.
 Fish Aye Saltzman Aye Udailey Aye Fritz Aye Wheeler Aye Motion carries Public testimony at this point Very good How many folks do we have signed up?
 We have seven people signed up. Very good. Three minutes each. Name for the record. If you're a lobbyist, let us know. We find about six inches between yourself and the microphone is ideal. The microphones slide around. Please, when your three minutes is up, please stop so that I don't have to stop you. The first three are Alan Rowan. Yes.
 Heather Hoyle, and Juno Suarez.
 Good morning. Heather, would you like to start us off, please? Sure. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am here today and thrilled that I get to start this because I came to say thank you. Thank you very much for restoring funding for the Catalytic Investment Initiative. As you know, this provides targeted support for historically underserved business districts in East and North Portland.
 The program has been not only a huge success, but in calendar year 2018 generated $100,000 in new privately paid payroll for business districts, making these some incredibly efficient public dollars that are being spent. Thank you very much for restoring that funding and creating some stability for this key program. Thank you. Thank you, Heather. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. You forgot to put your name in the record.
 Heather Hale, Executive Director of Venture Portland. Thanks for being here. You deserve the recognition for all the hard work that you do, and thank you for the organization's work too. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Juno Suarez. I'm speaking today on behalf of Portland Democratic Socialists of America. With the closing of the budget season, today is the public's last opportunity to make the case about services that we depend on.
 Over the past six weeks, you have heard from Portland residents pleading for the funding of vital services. Parents have begged you not to shut down their community centers. Young people have pled that you keep the Youth Paths program. Residents have demanded mental health care and addiction services rather than an expanded militarized police force.
 All of the constituencies who have mobilized to testify had something in common. They were fighting to preserve underfunded, hollowed-out services because every year this budget process is based on a model of austerity.
 What does austerity mean? It means a city that is perpetually underfunded. It means that even with a booming economy, our elected officials operate with the presupposition that there isn't enough, that resources are scarce. So you force residents to battle against each other over crumbs. Austerity means that even though wealth inequality has never been greater, we have to starve our city out of funding so that the wealthiest won't have to be burdened with paying more.
 And austerity means that we focus on the immediate necessities every year. But what is missing from this framework is where is the vision for Portland? We don't ever get to fight for a vision of plenty because we are so busy preserving the scraps. And this city has plenty. The wealth is here.
 As a first step towards redressing this divestment from our city, Portland DSA has presented our tax plan. This modest marginal tax on the wealthiest residents alone would raise $114 million per year. Universal pre-K would cost about $70 million per year.
 We'd still have over $40 million to actually improve the lives of residents in this city. We can house all of our residents. We can fully fund education. The real question is, why do we limit ourselves? Why do we allow businesses to dictate the boundaries of what is possible? Why do we accept the meagerness is all that we deserve and all we will ever get? Thank you.
 It is time to be bold. It is time to reframe our economy and our politics. A budget is a moral document, and this budget shows that we will keep limping along, cutting to the bone, because we are too afraid to tax the rich and too afraid to fund the city. Please fight for more than austerity.
 Fight for a vision of a city that works not just for those at the top, but for all of us. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Alan Irland. I own Grey Dog Digital, an IT support and consulting company. I'm also the president of the Foster Area Business Association.
 For the last three years, Foster has participated in Venture Portland's Catalytic Investment Initiative. And with your investment in Venture Portland's support, we've launched two signature events for our district. A holiday tree lighting, which this year generated more than 200 pounds of donated food and clothing for a shelter in our area. And our all-ages tasting tour that makes cash registers ring in our food and beverage purveyors along Foster Road.
 Following a series of racial incidents in our district last year, we partnered with 82nd Avenue and our neighborhood associations to create the Southeast Portland Stands Together, a statement of our shared values. We've diversified our membership and leadership to bring it in line with the demographics of the community which we serve. Finally, because of this funding, we were able to be a productive partner with the City, County, and Joint Office of Homeless Services to ensure plans for the new shelter on Foster will make it the best shelter in Portland.
 I'm here today to thank you very much for restoring the Catalic Investment Initiative funds and providing ongoing financial stability to this program and the business districts like Foster that depend on it. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three are Emily Goldenfields, Olivia Hassenkamp, and Amanda Aguilar-Shank. Oh, sorry, Emily's not here. We'll go with Tina Wyszynski. Would you like to start?
 Yes, please. Oh, I can start? Excellent. So my name's Amanda Aguilar-Schenk. I'm the deputy director at Enlace. We run the National Prison Divestment Campaign, as well as the Freedom City Movement, which is a movement that builds a vision of what safety looks like for all marginalized communities. And I'm here today to talk about the increase in the Portland police budget, which we're adamantly opposed to.
 I've lived here in Portland since 2001. I've lived in North Portland, St. John's, and Portsmouth since 2007.
 I've personally witnessed intense harassment of my family and friends of color, police-initiated interactions that end in arrest that were completely unnecessary. I work at 12th and Stark, where there's a mission that serves the houseless, and witness weekly sweeps, police incidents there.
 responding to mental health and drug addiction issues that escalate in ways that are completely unnecessary. And right now, what I'm seeing in our city is that the budget can be used to address some of these issues. The budget can be used to address housing, mental health.
 equity, and instead what we're doing is looking at increasing the police budget, which is breaking my heart. I don't want to be traveling around the country and be ashamed of being from Portland, a city that divests from, criminalizes, and over-polices communities of color. That's not the progressive city that I want to be a part of, and increasingly that's what I hear when I leave the city.
 I also, I wanted to share that we, at Enlace, we also run a training institute where we've been, last year we trained over 200 community leaders of color
 One of the conversations we have in that institute is looking at what safety is. And so I know that you all want safety. I know that's what we want as well for our communities. And wanted to share with you some of what those 200-plus people came up with in terms of what safety looks like.
 It looks like educating our communities on how to vote. It looks like lifting up our children. It looks like creating dialogue between marginalized communities. It looks like defunding the police, demilitarizing the country. It looks like funding free public education, safe housing, no gentrification, rent control, fully funded mental health. And so I'm...
 frankly confused about why we're increasing the police budget when we know there are so many intense gaps in all of these areas that will actually build safety in our communities. And when you hear from, like you did last week, dozens of folks from marginalized communities and receive comment after comment, it makes me wonder what side you're on and who you represent in the city of Portland. Thank you.
 So I wanted to express my disappointment and urge you to not increase the police budget. Very good. And if I could just comment, and I'll make the same recommendation that I made last week, which is I encourage people to actually go through the budget, particularly the public safety budget. We're not going to agree on the need for increased police patrols and foot patrols. I think we have an honest disagreement there. But I do want people to take note of the fact that,
 that we are making significant new and record investments in mental health intervention. And I don't mean policed intervention. I mean things like acute mental health treatment beds at Central City Concern. By listening to the community, particularly the houseless community, which you referenced, we've actually added a liaison position in the police bureau to work with and help establish policy
 around the homeless interactions. We've asked for data collection, auditing resources, and accountability. All of that also gets funded within the Bureau. And importantly, we've made record investments, substantial increases around homeless service. That's prevention. That's emergency shelter. We're making the largest investment by millions of dollars that we've ever made in transition from streets to
 And last year, I think we were all pretty happy with the 5,000 people that we transitioned from the streets into housing, and in some cases supportive housing. And through the Housing Bureau, by the end of 2019, we'll have more affordable units available.
 delivered by a factor of five-fold from the year prior to my taking office. So I would encourage us to find the commonality in the areas where I think we're in real agreement here and see if we can't find ways to work together to address those issues rather than being confrontational. But I appreciate your testimony, both today and last week. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Tina Wisinski.
 I run the Stadium District Business Association, and I thank you very much for your time today. We are also members of Venture Portland, which Heather Howell spoke of. We're a pretty new organization. I run the Business District Association, and we have nearly 50 members who run businesses of a variety of sizes and longevity. In the Stadium District, which actually encompasses Kings Hill and Goose Hollow and borders the Pearl District, the West End and the Northwest Knob Hill area.
 I would like to urge you to reconsider and possibly oppose the proposed changes to the business license tax at this time and the owner's compensation deduction. There are concerns about ramifications to the health of their – my members have concerns about ramifications to the health of their businesses, and I think it's in part due to perception of a lack of communication and a lack of time to respond about the said proposed changes. It just happened really fast.
 Running a business isn't easy. Ask anyone, and especially ask any small business owner, large ones as well. My members have had to deal with, and I'm sorry to say this out loud, cleaning up human waste, including defecation and vomit on their picnic patio tables. They've had to hire additional staff to hose down patios daily, power wash sidewalks, pick up trash, all of which continues to cut into business profitability. Excuse me.
 Several of our members have staff who have personally and physically been personally and physically threatened, and there is no clear-cut solution to these problems, nor a timeline for when they will end. And that doesn't include other issues they have had to deal with, which I know you guys know about this stuff, consistent crime related to issues such as car prowls, vandalism, and theft.
 The growing problem of continual houseless camping and campsite growth, waking up and having to wake up people and ask them, sleeping in the doorway, to move and being verbally threatened.
 The business license taxes generate more than $100 million each year to fund city services, and as you know, contributed to a nice $22.7 million budget surplus for the coming year. My members do not understand why this increase is warranted. They do not owe any increase at all, really. With this surplus, we feel like they don't feel like they don't need an increase. But what we would like to see is using the surplus more.
 Much as you said already, to clean up the city, the trash everywhere is not helpful, and it's a little disgusting. To make some better efforts to hold the houseless and transient populations accountable for their actions, we don't really see a lot of that happening. And to provide an easier road for businesses and startups so they stop moving out of Multnomah County. Please, the city that works doesn't always work for some of the businesses. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon.
 Hi. I am Olivia Hasenkamp. Thank you all for your time. I am here. This is my third time testifying in front of you all. Actually, you may remember me. I'm here with Care Not Cops and in solidarity with Amanda and Juno who spoke. I would just like to respond to your response, Mayor, that
 Part of the reason I think that we are continuously coming to you all, that so many people, and the people in this room may not know this, but the people who come to the budget forums in the last hearing were probably able to come because it wasn't in the middle of the workday as this is. So it's really difficult for people to make this time. And part of the reason that a lot of people are not here to participate
 also express their disapproval of the increase in the police budget, but I would just like to say that
 I am again here to demand an immediate freeze on new Portland Police Bureau hires instead of the 49 new positions proposed, as well as to disarm, defund, and dismantle the police to create real safety in our communities. And I know that we disagree on a lot of the ways that safety is considered by different communities, but I think that...
 Part of the issue is that the increases in what you were saying before, the new maybe affordable housing that might be coming in the upcoming years, it's just not enough. It's not enough. And investing so much money into the police will never, never help people actually survive.
 be invested in their own communities. The police are not and will never be adequate mental health responders. They are trained to neutralize situations, not deescalate. They pretty much, in my experience, have always escalated situations.
 Always. Never de-escalated situations. And I do not believe that they are ever capable of doing that, especially in a uniform, especially when people know that they are the tools of the state of repression, basically. So...
 We need life-affirming, community-based resources, not more broken windows policing, which is now disguised as community service officers. So I just want to say again...
 We really, really do not need more policing in our communities. Thank you for being here. Thanks to all three of you. Commissioner Fritz. I just want to respond to what you just said. Thank you for being here, and I do recognize that you're representing a lot of people who couldn't be here during the day, so thank each of you for coming. Well, Mike Reese was police chief, so that's a fact.
 a few years ago, he did a presentation for council about the number of incidents where people had been safely transported to the hospital. And the number that sticks into my mind was 1,000. And I can't remember whether it was in a year or in three years. But you don't hear about those. So yes, we are all aware of the times when things have not gone well and there have been tragedies. We don't hear about the times that the police have been able to intervene and help people get services. So I just wanted to put that on the record. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz, the current referral rate is about $1,000 per year, and the two additional behavioral health unit teams will actually increase that by about $250. So we'll effectively be able to double our capacity in this budget. And I want to be clear. While I agree with you that a budget is a moral document, and I've often used that exact language myself, I always figured if a –
 economic archaeologist digs up documents from the past, it really does give you a snapshot in time of what priorities were for a community. So it is an apt description. But it is also a snapshot in time. And with a new police chief on board, and I'm still relatively new here as well, I have a very clear vision in my mind about where I want public safety and where I want the community.
 And as I said last week, I hope an area where we're in agreement is we absolutely do need at a fundamentally different level to address particularly mental health and addiction services both here locally and nationally. And I hope that's an area where we're in agreement.
 Commissioner Fritz. Again, just following up from that, some of the officers that are in this budget are to team up with mental health care workers, what we call the mobile response units. And so we've had, I think, three teams, and now we're going to be expanding that so that when a family member is concerned and wants a welfare check, often the person who's maybe having a mental health crisis may be a danger to themselves or others. And so it's been the...
 to have a police officer go, obviously we want the first overture to be somebody with mental health care training and the police officer is there as a backup and as a specially trained person. So that, again, is actually expanding services and getting people into care in a responsible way so that people increasingly can call police
 or the non-emergency number if they are concerned about a family member where now they might be concerned that that would not be the right thing to do. Thank you for your testimony. We really appreciate it. How many more, Carla? I have one more. Just one more. Very good. Charles Uragi. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Charles Uragi, and just coming as a concerned citizen, I learned about the residential infill project through attendance at –
 Selward Neighborhood Association and also through Portland Business Alliance meetings and I'm coming here to support the historic resource inventory funding I think the historic resource inventory asked to be fully funded it'll be an invaluable tool to help make the residential infield project a success I think this historic resource inventory
 will help reconcile two very important constituencies regarding the residential and field project. One constituency advocating for neighborhood charm and stability, and the other advocating for the critical need for new units in a city and nation experiencing a housing shortage and all of the social problems we know associated with the high price of housing, etc.,
 Historic resource inventory will allow the residential infill project to focus incentives towards flexibility according to preservation of historic homes. This would square the circle of the conflict seemingly between charm and development.
 Incentives and flexibility will give historic homes the economic value to ensure their preservation and good maintenance. This will also encourage new housing in desirable locations at affordable costs and in housing types that families are actually looking for. The historic resource inventory will be a critical tool in making the residential infill project a success, both as policy and in neighborhood support. Thank you so much.
 Very good. Thank you. That completes testimony. So, Director Scott, I think the next item is to vote to approve the budget as amended. Is that correct? Yes. I think at this point.
 Unless there are any additional amendments, it is to vote to approve as amended. Is this the final vote on the budget today? Yes, this is the final vote, yeah. And if I could just, Mayor, if I could just take 30 seconds before you go into that. So just as a reminder, this is the final vote on the approved budget. We have a couple more steps. We'll be back on June 7th. And I will probably have a little bit more to say on June 7th. But I did want to briefly just thank Council for making this budget process work.
 Again, this is my 10th budget. And throughout this process, I meet and talk with each of your offices throughout the process. And as usual this year, as there are in every year, there are areas of agreement, there are areas of disagreement. But I think throughout it all, this council works really hard to get to a compromise and a point of consensus. And I really believe not every government does that. And the willingness to work together not only makes Portland, I think, the city that it is, but it makes my job a heck of a lot easier. So thank you very much for that.
 Very good. So we are voting now to approve the budget as amended. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Well, thank you, Mayor and colleagues. I am pleased to support this budget. It balances the many urgent needs facing Portland while also positioning us for the future. There are a few items I'm especially proud of. For the first time ever, our utility bureaus will be able to help cost-burdened renters.
 We're also approving a handful of other new tools and expanding eligibility for more struggling families. This budget includes $3 million new dollars for housing placement services, $2 million of which we're investing in supportive housing, moving us closer to our goal of 2,000 new units by the year 2027. Supportive housing is a proven, cost-effective way to help many of the people sleeping outside move into a stable home.
 We're also funding a new position at Prosper Portland to help turn brownfields, land that has contaminated soil or water, into a community asset. This small investment will deliver a huge return to our community.
 And we're not only continuing our support for small businesses in East and North Portland, but we've also made those funds permanent. Venture Portland, which runs the highly successful Catalytic Investment Initiative, will use our modest investment to leverage big wins for small businesses, business owners, and underserved parts of our town.
 Colleagues, every budget presents its own challenges, and I want to thank each of you and your teams for working collaboratively. This is a good budget and reflects many of our shared values. I want to thank the community members who served on the Budget Advisory Committee and all the people who shared their input with us.
 Finally, as we've previously discussed, our budget process is showing its age. I look forward to working with my council colleagues, staff, and the community over the next year to reform and improve the way we engage the public and make tough budget choices. I also want to thank my team, headed by Sonia Schmansky, for their work in getting to this point. Thank you.
 Andrew, I would be remiss if I didn't add my own comments following the Mayor's comments about what a pleasure it has been to serve with you. And I think Commissioner Fritz will agree with me when I observe that one of the things that's made our budget process work more effectively and for us to be more collaborative was the decision the Council made to create an independent budget office.
 a budget office that served the budget committee as a whole, not the mayor sometimes and the council sometimes. I think that one structural change made it, was not only good for, was not only a positive move for accountability and transparency, but I think it's had a very positive impact on our budget deliberations. So you will be missed, and thank you for your service. With that, Mayor, I vote aye. Selfsman? Aye.
 Well, I guess I'll pick up on Commissioner Fritz's last remarks about I do also want to add my accolades for Commissioner Fritz's leadership in establishing the independent budget office. I think that really has...
 been a dramatic improvement in how we do business, and it does and you've recruited a very talented, capable staff to help us analyze all the Bureau budgets, so I really do think that was a great step, and I also wish you the best in your next career as a Deputy Chief Operating Officer at Metro. That sounds like a great position, and I'm sure you'll do well. I just want to add my thanks to my colleagues, to the staff of the Budget Office, to all of our
 personal staffs who labor long and hard and all the bureau personnel who labor long and hard on on crafting these budgets that try to reflect uh the priorities and the values of our city at a at a point in time at a fiscal year point in time and uh you know i think we we strive to get it as best we can but we're all humans and we're all capable of uh you know maybe not getting it right but uh
 That's what we're here for, is to continue to try to get it right and to make sure our budget does reflect community priorities. And I think this budget does that, and I'm pleased to support it. Hi. Udailey.
 Well, this is the second budget cycle that I've participated in, but only the first full budget cycle, and I will admit it was much more challenging than last year's. I personally didn't feel the process worked as well as it could for city bureaus, the public, or for council. The request for the 5% across-the-board budget cuts didn't,
 compel bureaus to really get to inefficiencies and cost savings. And many of the budget cuts that were offered were cuts that were alarming to the community and alarming to us and I think just not helpful. So by being forced to offer these cut packages and alarming and activating community members,
 Those activated community members predictably showed up at community budget hearings to protest cuts to programs they care about with little or no knowledge or consideration of other budget issues. And while I absolutely appreciate and respect everyone's testimony and contribution, it did leave me feeling like we live on different planets. Yeah.
 based on what people's most burning issues are. My most burning issues are people who can't afford housing, our environmental issues. Anyhow.
 So as we know and as we saw, some groups were able to better mobilize than others. And many of the urgent matters that we need to address were not reflected by the turnout. And many voices were barely able to be heard over the din. When all was said and done, community centers were all funded, while other equally or more important programs and initiatives were not.
 We need a more thoughtful and meaningful process that will enable city bureaus, the public, and the city council to work together in understanding and prioritizing the complex budgeting challenges we face. This budget does do some great work to address our most urgent issues, and I'd like to highlight a few of them. We've dedicated $500,000 to universal defense for people facing unfair and unjust removal and deportation.
 As our federal administration continues to target and terrorize Portland's immigrant communities, I'm grateful to be in a position to do something about it. This is an important moment, and I'm proud to be part of a council that is on the right side of history on this issue. So I want to thank Mayor Wheeler for including this in his proposed budget and continuing to support it.
 We've increased our contribution to the Joint Office of Homeless Services by at least $3 million, maybe a little bit more. About $5 million. Oh, about $5 million. Wow. I didn't get that memo.
 We're serving more people facing challenges around affordability, eviction, and homelessness than ever. Unfortunately, what the city and county are actually doing to address houselessness gets lost in distracting debates about Wapato and other well-intentioned but not well-informed approaches.
 Investing $31.2 million in the Joint Office of Homeless Services will fund the hard work that doesn't make headlines, but does make a critical difference for thousands of our most vulnerable community members. As previously noted, we're also increasing the business license tax for the first time in decades.
 The rising tide of prosperity in Portland is clearly not lifting all boats. In fact, as the increasing number of people who are insecure in their housing and becoming homeless demonstrates, things are getting worse, not better, for many people in Portland. Increasing the BLT now is a great first step toward recognizing how we can divert part of that rising tide to help the people who are struggling to stay afloat and ultimately create a safer, more equitable, and prosperous city for all of us.
 However, I am worried about some of the expenditures in this budget. The Council Budget Office started the budget process with an appeal to consider the sustainability of the city's finances. This budget generates more ongoing resources, but increasing authorized staffing at the Portland Police Bureau by 49 positions comes with significant new permanent funding obligations.
 Business tax revenues will fluctuate with the economy. We are setting ourselves up for a very difficult conversation by making new ongoing commitments to funding more police officers with a funding source that we know is subject to economic forces beyond our control. Despite my remaining questions and concerns, I do respect and want to support Chief Outlaw as she continues to implement her vision for the PPB. And there are some wins in the police budget.
 We're getting two additional behavior health unit teams. We're creating a houseless community engagement liaison position. We're funding data analytics to support equity and diversity goals. And we're securing resources for the traffic division to enforce Vision Zero. As well as the mayor's budget note on a deadline for filling the long overdue community service officer positions, which I think there is a lot of remaining confusion about in the community and I would really love to...
 true clarity on those positions and what functions they'll serve, as well as my budget note on decreasing the Bureau's reliance on overtime, which is an expensive and undesirable practice. There are issues that did not get resolved in this budget. I'd like to highlight a couple of the most important issues that need more work. Neighborhood coalition offices.
 Coalition offices are important partners in our efforts to connect community to government. The audit in 2016, ONI audit in 2016, revealed what many have known for a long time. East Portland's population continues to grow rapidly, while funding for the coalition office has remained the same. It was important that we address this disparity now, which is why we requested additional funding.
 I'm disappointed that we were not able to secure the additional funding for the East Portland Neighborhood Office. I want to acknowledge that while East Portland has a rapidly growing population, all of the coalition offices are serving more people than they ever have. This is why I'm working hard to reduce the fiscal impact of rebalancing that will need to occur this year. And just to be clear, the rebalancing is taking money away from the other coalitions to fund UPNO more equitably.
 We've identified $44,000 in existing Bureau Fund dollars that we will direct to APNO in addition to the $30,000 we received in this proposed budget. I'm also working with the Budget Office to redirect cost savings from my office budget to the Coalition's.
 And this really is for the coalition directors and members. ONI directors Sukri and I are committed to working with all of the coalitions to develop a long-term method for equitably distributing funding. I also look forward to brainstorming new ways to structure this work and finding efficiencies and cost savings so that we can continue to strengthen all of our neighborhood coalitions. Thank you.
 A couple final items. I had a budget ask for ADU financing pilot, which is, I think, a little too wonky to go into at this moment. But I do want to reiterate how important it is as we move forward with our residential infill project that we make sure that the benefits of those policies are delivered to...
 property owners who are low and moderate income. And as it stands, the only people who are going to benefit from RIP are affluent homeowners and developers. And so I plan to spend the summer working with my colleagues and community members to develop the support necessary to fund this plan in the fall budget process. Without it, I don't know how I'm going to support RIP.
 Finally, accommodations. I'm disappointed that this item was not fully funded. I agree that the city should provide accommodations as part of its normal course of business and that bigger bureaus should use existing resources to comply with the law. Smaller bureaus and their community partners do not have enough ongoing resources to provide accommodations with existing resources. We need a long-term strategy to address this problem. To be clear, accommodations are...
 language translation, ASL interpreters, bus passes, child care, the kinds of things that we, the combinations we need to make to ensure participation from the most diverse range of community members as possible. So I think as you can tell from my tone and my comments, this is a compromise budget for me, and there have been some hard pills to swallow there.
 Overall, I'm happy that we're able to work together to get to consensus about the budget.
 During these chaotic times in politics, it's important to demonstrate that local government can work together to overcome differences and make progress on the most urgent issues in our community. So my thanks go out to my colleagues, bureau directors and staff, my office staff, the council budget office, and especially to the community members who serve us in an advisory capacity and all those who came to our budget listening sessions and are here today. Aye. Fritz?
 Well, thank you to everybody who participated in this. I believe it's appropriate that we spend so much time on the budget. What you have to do is follow the money, and where this money gets allocated, that's what's going to happen in the next year. And for the most part, if the money isn't there, then it's going to be very difficult to make other things happen. So thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your willingness to work with the business community to propose the increase in the business license fee, which went so much better than the previous attempt.
 and I very much appreciate that, and also for working with your colleagues to address our budget priorities. Thank you to each of my colleagues for working collaboratively. Each of us prioritised within our Bureau assignments and within the things that we care about which things were the most important to put into the compromise budget. And so, like Ms. Newdaly, there are things that I didn't get that I would have loved to have had, and yet I'm very grateful that we were able to get to where we are at now.
 Thank you to Michael Bartay, Trang Lam, Amy Archer-Masters, and all of the Parks staff who were amazing in looking at the budget. Parks is still one of only two bureaus with a net cut in this budget, and yet it could have been so much work without their diligence. Thank you to the Parks Budget Advisory Committee, which I'm a proud participant in. It's great.
 always a process that we can do better. And so I know that we will continue looking at how can we make all of these meetings more accessible, more available to every voice to be heard. Thank you, Andrew Scott and the City Budget Office. As has already been said, I am really pleased with how the independent City Budget Office continues to guide this, and it's perhaps...
 One of your greatest legacies, Andrew, that I believe it will continue after you're moved on to your next job and that we have the sound basis that no mayor, no council is going to get rid of the city budget office or try to affect its independence at this point because of its success in serving all five members of the council, city auditor and the community. Thank you to our community budget advisors and Tim Crayle, my chief of staff. This is both of our 10th budget this year.
 And I'm happy for the most part for where this budget ended up. $15 million in additional revenue changed what would have been an extremely ugly cut year into a year with many important priorities being funded or protected from a potential cut.
 I'm very pleased we're shifting $4 million from one time to ongoing resources for the Joint Office of Homeless Services, while adding nearly $3 million of new funding for alternative shelter and housing placement. Let's say again what the Mayor has said several times already today. 5,000 people off the streets and into housing in this past year. 6,000 people who are at risk of becoming homeless and are not.
 And so while, yes, there are still far too many people, far too many children outside, there are a lot of people who are not because of the work that the mayor has done in leading the housing bureau and partnering with Jack O'Floor in the joint office. I have voted for increased funding for the housing bureau and for these services every year of office, even during the cut years, and I'm proud about the...
 tens of millions of dollars more that the citizens of Portland, the community of Portland is willing to dedicate to these services.
 It's important to note, as generous as the people of Portland are, we cannot afford to fix the problem of houselessness across the entire United States. This is a federal problem that has been defunded since President Reagan and continues to be so. And we will do what we can. It's a statewide problem. It's a national problem. And that's the real core issue that needs to be addressed.
 I do appreciate the person who came and testified about the Stadium District Business Association, also Foster Powell. I want to do more to help Portland small businesses. I would be interested next year in support in exploring an increase in the gross receipts exemption.
 from the current $50,000 to $100,000, with a slight increase, again, in the business license tax, maybe of 0.05%, a revenue-neutral tax increase that would really help small businesses. And I think we've made a huge step. When I first ran, which was more than 10 years ago now,
 I was asked, would you support increasing the owner exemption to $125,000? In other words, that is not taxed, that income. And so we finally got there this year, and I'm very pleased to have fulfilled that promise. The next step is to make sure that the very small businesses don't pay anything at all and don't even have to file. So I think that that's something that I'm interested in exploring.
 So hiring 50 officers, hiring up to 90 officers was the original proposal. As much as we've heard about the police staffing, let's recognise that this budget is a lot less than was originally requested.
 and I believe is essential. So I'm supporting the proposal. I know there are lingering concerns in the community that additional officers will result in more bad outcomes. Training will be crucial to ensure that there is a cultural shift in policing in Portland. Training officers are included in this budget.
 The Mayor has been very specific in what is being funded, while also recognising that we have a severe overtime problem with the patrol officers. We have a severe shortage of people, despite the generous police contract where we've finally been able to fill almost all of the vacant officer positions.
 Thanks to the courageous position taken by my former colleagues on Mayor Hales' council. We're getting those recruits in and they are going to be trained and out on the streets by themselves within a year or so. At the moment, overtime level is unsustainable. Tired officers are dangerous officers. And I don't want people out on the streets patrolling who've worked 80 hours. As somebody who worked in hospitals and seen...
 tragedies that can happen when people are tired and more likely to make mistakes. That's just not safe and that's why I'm supporting this budget. The crucial community service officer program must be a significant part of the staffing solution for the police bureau. I will be watching the progress and I'm very pleased that we have the budget notes specifying exactly what's going to happen for that and for the overtime. Thank you Commissioner Daly for that.
 I'm happy to see expansion of the behavioral health unit to provide additional help for those experiencing mental health crises. Dr. Commissioner Sharon Myron is doing amazing work at the county, looking at the system and determining what needs to be done. And they are responsible for mental health care funding and mental health care services. So the council continues the work that was done under Mayor Hales and under Mayor Hales.
 Mayor Adams, to try to work better with the county so that the people don't care who's supposed to be providing the services, they want the services provided. And so that's the other piece to remember, that while we are increasing funding for those services in the city budget, even though we don't have to, the county is doing even more. And so we will continue to work with them on that.
 I may or may not be the Parks Commissioner when the Mayor reassigns the bureaus. I'm very pleased that the parks cuts have been restored and with the priorities that are funded in this budget. My commitment to a vibrant park system began before I was elected to Council and will continue as long as I'm on the Council, in fact as long as I'm a Portlander, whether I'm the Parks Commissioner or not. The reality for parks, and actually for many other bureaus, is that they are not currently on a financially sustainable path.
 There are both ongoing costs and maintenance backlogs that need to be addressed, as well as Americans with Disabilities Act responsibilities. We discussed some of those on transportation this morning. There are 17 million in parks that we need to figure out how we're going to correct.
 And I believe we should do that. So the exciting part for me in this budget is that we are funding the long-range vision plan, the Parks 2035 plan, the financial sustainability plan, and the cost recovery plan. So for the first time that I can remember, we're going to be inviting the entire community to talk about not only what do we want from our park system, where do we need more community centres, where do we need repairs to playground equipment, where do we need programs for seniors or people with disabilities.
 Also, how are we going to pay for those? And how are we as Portlanders willing to pay for our park system? Because to me, parks are a basic infrastructure and they're basic services as much as public safety, police and fire. That if people don't have constructive things to do, if they don't have healthy ways to recreate and exercise, then that's not a healthy community and we pay for it on the wrong end.
 And so I'm very happy that we're going to be able to collectively, everybody, not be talking about are we cutting this community centre or that community centre? Are we cutting this programme or that programme? If Parks had not put forward the packages that they put forward this time, totalling over $3 million, they would have had to have put forward 3 million of other cuts and would have had...
 a similar number of people just being concerned about different programs. And so we need to look collectively, and I say all five members of the council, we all have to decide how are we going to provide those services to the community for the next 15, 20 years.
 particularly in some of the things that were saved were the operating money for the Fulton and Hillside community centres. People wonder whether going to the budget sessions made a difference. Yes, it did. Fewer police officers in response to what we heard. The community centres are funded. We did not fund Youth Pass, and I want to just...
 reflect on that because I've been a big supporter of it throughout my time on the council. It's a great program. There is no question it is a great program and TriMet and the school district should be encouraging students to ride the buses.
 It's a state mandate that the school boards provide transportation services for their students. That's not a city responsibility. And Mayor Williams was very clear last year that this was the last year that the city was going to do that because we need to fund things that are our responsibility, like housing, like services for people living outside, like the things that are in this budget. And so...
 I believe that the school districts and TriMet need to be sitting down together and figuring out. We did fund a pilot for East Portland last year. They determined that, yes, it has been successful in helping their students get to school, even though they have far worse service than the rest of the city in Portland Public Schools. So it's up to them to now make sure that those students can get to school.
 We are having one-time funding for preschool so that the very popular Portland Parks and Recreation preschool program is continuing and that people with lower incomes can access it and can have first choice at those programs. And that's wonderful. Money for rangers and for safety on the East Bank Esplanade and the very...
 seemingly mundane but really important money to fix culverts in Forest Park. So in this budget you go from the really high profile things to the really, you know what, this is a culvert repair. I'm not going to, nobody, no parks commissioner is going to probably be going and doing a ribbon cutting for the culvert repair but still it needs to be done and so we're fixing things.
 I'm very pleased that we continue to dedicate half of the one-time money to essential infrastructure in parks, emergency management and transportation. And this council is being disciplined in doing that, and I applaud that.
 There are many, many good decisions in here. And there's also additional money that needs to be reflected when people are saying, where are we getting our funding sources? $3 million from cannabis tax money, recreational cannabis, and over $3 million that Commissioner Udali and I are going to have a work session later in this year so that we can start looking at every year this money seems to be coming in now on a fairly regular basis. How can we use that to the...
 to fulfill the promises that I made when I campaigned for that ballot measure. And secondly, $3 million from taxing companies, corporations, whose chief executive officers make more than 100 times the median income of their workers.
 So we are actually taxing the rich, and in a way that we're not allowed to do head taxes like Seattle has done. So that's against the Oregon Constitution. But the CEO tax, which was led by Commissioner Novick, is actually working out to provide a little bit of that balancing of equity between the very affluent and the very unaffluent. And I think that's a good thing. I think we should be looking for more opportunities to do that.
 In summary, thank you very much. The final thing that I'm really happy is in there, the full $1.25 million for open and accountable elections. It's crucial for the success of the program. This is the public financing matching system that we're going to effect for 2020. We hope to start interviewing next week for the program director, and I believe that it's...
 another step forward for democracy in the city of Portland, and therefore for democracy in the United States of America. So thank you very much for funding that. Aye. Wheeler. Well, thank you, everyone. This was my first budget process from beginning to end. As you'll recall, last year I was brought into the budget process part of the way through it. So this was really a necessary first step for my administration. I regard this budget as being foundational.
 and it will continue to work towards the priorities that I laid out when I ran for this office. I'm delighted with my colleagues and the number of conversations we had, the level of conversations we had. Yes, the disagreements and debates that we had, I thought they were very important, and I value them.
 and I'm glad that we were able to fund things like the utilities and the parks and transportation and equity and safety. All of those things are extremely important. I want to thank the budget staff. You have probably spent more time with me in the last several months than you have your families, with your kids, your spouses. I'm grateful for that, and I think we did a lot of great work together. I want to thank my team.
 who spent a ton of time on this as well. But who I really want to thank is the public. I never forget. You may think I forget sometimes, but I never forget who I work for.
 That doesn't mean I'm always able to forge a consensus on every single issue. But I said when I ran and you elected me to this office to focus on certain priorities, and those priorities are addressing the homeless crisis on our streets.
 addressing the housing affordability issue that continues to be a significant challenge to Portlanders. You elected me to improve economic prosperity across the board and to do so in an equitable manner. And you elected me to modernize our police borough and increase the accountability of the police borough.
 And I feel sometimes as though when I came here and sat in this chair for the first time, I had died and was suddenly reborn, as though I never had a past.
 that followed me into this chair. And I was thinking about this this morning as we were talking about the folks from Portland Homeless Family Solutions and the Goose Hollow Family Shelter, where I started my volunteer life as an overnight volunteer shelter host actually decades ago at this point.
 And as we've had great conversations and terrific testimony, including today, around mental health services, I want to remind people, I used to be the Multnomah County Chair.
 I used to be at the top of the mental health and public health safety net in our community, and I took that responsibility very, very seriously. And if you go back and check the record, you'll see the degree to which that is true. I brought that with me here.
 And I served for six years as a statewide officeholder. I was the state treasurer here for the great state of Oregon for six years. And I brought fiscal responsibility to this chair. And that's why fiscal responsibility was the first thing I talked about when I released my budget to the press a week and a half, two weeks ago. It's because we are exposed. Right.
 to a recession. We are exposed to an economic downturn, and people rely on the city of Portland to provide core services come hell or high water. And so we need to be fiscally responsible in our budget and fiscally sustainable over the long run to be able to continue to deliver those services come hell or high water. This budget does that.
 It's not perfect. There's no such thing as a perfect budget. But as a foundation for which my administration can build on, it's as perfect as I think we could get it here today. I vote aye. The budget as amended is approved. And with that, we get to the boring part, legal stuff. So it's my understanding, Director Scott, we have to approve the tax levies, and I have some language from state statute that I'm compelled to read. Yes, please. Grab your popcorn, everyone.
 The city shall levy its full permanent rate of $4.5770 per $1,000 of assessed value and $17,920,183 for the payment of voter-approved general obligation bond principal and interest.
 and $163,748,624 for the obligations for the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund, and $0.4026 per $1,000 of assessed value for the children's levy. Congratulations, Dan. Furthermore, the city shall levy the amounts listed in Attachments E for urban renewal collections. I would entertain a motion.
 To vote to approve the tax levies. We'll move. We have a motion. We have a second. Call the roll, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Taxes pay for services, and thank you to the taxpayers of Portland who are funding this budget that we just passed. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The motion carries. So the meeting of the City of Portland Budget Committee is now adjourned. And with that...
 I'm now convening the Prosper Portland Budget Committee for the purpose of approving the fiscal year 2018-19 budget. Carla, could you please read item number 483? Approve the annual budget of Prosper Portland for fiscal year 2018-19.
 The Budget Committee members received copies of Prosper Portland's initial budget approval change memo on Tuesday, May 8th, and a revised budget change memo on Tuesday, May 15th that amends Resolution 7272, which is under consideration today. Do we need to recall the role for this particular committee? So, Pam, I'm going to ask you, I guess at this point, Carly, you get a break. Pam, could you please call the roll? Fish? Yes.
 Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. I'm now calling for a motion to consider the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the change memo and Exhibit A. So moved. We have a motion and a second, and now we have Prosper Portland staff who are going to discuss changes included in the change memo. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. Our...
 Budget Officer Tony Barnes is here to talk through the changes that reflect the changes in the proposed budget that the city put forward. And we're here to answer any questions that you might have. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. I'm Tony Barnes, Finance Manager at Prosper Portland.
 Before you are in the resolution is a revised change memo attached, Exhibit A, to the resolution amends the proposed budget presented on May 9th with several adjustments necessary to balance the budget and align the Prosper Portland with the City of Portland budget that was approved just now. Changes being recommended include $200,000 in general fund resources that are programmed for Venture Portland, the Catalytic Investment Initiative.
 $150,000 in general fund resources to support the Portland Brownfields Program. An increase of $227,000 for community development block grant program funds associated with the Economic Opportunity Initiative. That's based on the federal budget and PHB approved budget. A decrease of $1 million in expenditures in the Oregon Convention Center URA that won't expand next fiscal year. So we're moving those resources out to following fiscal year.
 based on the timing of planned program expenditures in that district. And then finally, two adjustments to the housing set-aside that match the Portland Housing Bureau's approved budget, both one changes in the Lentz urban renewal area and one in the interstate urban renewal area. So those are based on timing of set-aside expenditures and disbursement of cash for it.
 for the set-aside from PHB. And that concludes the recommended changes that's included in Exhibit A to the resolution and the change memo. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? I'm now calling for individual amendments to the memo from commissioners, if you have any. I don't believe we have any. Therefore, I'm calling for any public testimony. We have one. Let's hear them. Ashley Henry. Come on up, Ashley.
 Ashley, if you could state your name. Yes, sure. Hello, I'm Ashley Henry. I'm here representing Business for a Better Portland. We're a membership organization here and sent you a letter. And I wanted to thank you for restoring the funding to Prosper Portland's budget that supports underrepresented entrepreneurs.
 We were really pleased with the response that we got from our members and other companies in Portland. We submitted a letter to you that had over 125 companies supporting the work of Prosper Portland to support underrepresented entrepreneurs.
 Our members mostly have benefited from countless opportunities that often aren't afforded to underrepresented entrepreneurs, and it was really important to us that we utilize this as an opportunity to demonstrate that we believe that when our community thrives as a whole, that's really what creates a more prosperous business economy, and we wanted to call your attention to that budget item and are very grateful that you chose to support it.
 I also wanted to let you know that subsequent to that, there was a subcommittee meeting of your Council of Economic Advisors, Mayor, and our Board Chair, Matas Apeta, talked with some of the other folks on that subcommittee and suggested that in...
 in honor of your call for more public-private partnerships, that our members would also be called upon to meet the $100,000 match, or to match the $100,000 that Prosper Portland provides in technical assistance to the beneficiaries, the companies that benefit from the Inclusive Business Resource Network.
 So we are about $35,000 towards that $100,000 goal from our members right now, and we'll be putting out a broader request to ask for them to provide in-kind or low-bono services to the businesses that receive support from Prosper Portland. So I just wanted to let you know that. So is it Director or President Henry?
 Oh, I'm the executive director. Your Royal Highness, will that suffice? The executive director, you're doing an outstanding job.
 And I really appreciate you, first of all, taking up the call, and second of all, leveraging that with your membership and going out there and selling it to the community, selling it to business owners and operators, and building that network of support. It means a lot to me personally, and it means a lot to the community at large. Thank you for that. Thank you. We look forward to working with you again. Very good. Thank you.
 So that is that for public testimony. I'm now calling to entertain a motion to vote to approve the budget amendments in Exhibit A of the Resolution 7272 as amended. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Now we will vote to approve the budget as amended. Please call the roll, Pam. Fish? Saltzman? Aye. Thank you.
 You, Daly? Well, I'm particularly pleased to see the programs for underrepresented entrepreneurs funded, and I want to thank Ashley for her advocacy and for being here today. And it's just really a pleasure to have a progressive business voice in City Hall. So thank you, and aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Thank you, Executive Director, Camille Branham, and all of your staff and the Prosper Portland Board. This is a lot smoother than it's been in many years in the past, and so that's a good thing. We do still have long-term questions about the future of Prosper Portland for another day, and this budget does prioritize the work that we want to see out of Prosper Portland. I'm very happy to support it. Bye. Wheeler?
 I vote aye. The budget is approved, is amended. And thank you all. Thank you, Kimberly. Thank you to your team. Thank you to the budget folks. The meeting of the Prosper Portland Budget Committee is now adjourned. Colleagues, our next item is a time certain at 3.30. Why don't we take a five-minute break? We are in recess. Let's go ahead and get going.
 Folks, if we please could, we're now back in session. We have a time certain item number 484. Carla, could you please read it? Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Presentation by Metro staff on a potential regional affordable housing measure. Very good. Colleagues, as you well know, Portland is in a housing emergency. In addressing this, we as a council have worked diligently with the community, with advocates and activists to craft policy and incentive development to create more housing stock while simultaneously approving methods
 of stabilizing both renters and owners of housing units with a specific emphasis on affordable housing and low-income renters and homeowners. We have approved a historic housing bond, which up to this point is put into our housing pipeline for development. Over half of the promised housing, nearly 600 units, within the first year of our five- to seven-year schedule –
 and Portland Housing Bureau continues to aggressively move forward to create affordable rental opportunities. We've also continued production through our use of tax increment finance in urban renewal areas and partnered with area nonprofit organizations to create additional housing for the homeless with a commitment to supportive housing, continued to produce housing for our veterans, Portland families, and our youth aging out of foster care, and, of course, we look to do a lot more.
 Our housing emergency is marked by four consecutive years of 5% or more rent increases in the Portland area, with a smaller overall rent increase of 2% in 2017. We know that high-opportunity neighborhoods are becoming increasingly inaccessible for many families.
 We know that our fellow Portland families and residents of color are all but priced out, according to our most recent State of the Housing report that outlined this. We know that Portland's population is increased by over 83,000 people between the years 2000 and 2015, and that growth is expected to continue. We're experiencing some growing pains as a city. I think we all agree on that.
 Colleagues, as one of our governance partners, Metro has created a draft framework plan in an effort to add additional resources to the Tri-County area through a potential housing bond. To present this framework, we welcome Jess Larson and Andy Shaw from Metro. Thank you so much. We have a brief presentation and would love to then get your questions and feedback on the framework.
 You outlined the nature of the housing crisis here in the city of Portland, and as this map shows, it really is also a regional challenge. The growing pains of our region have created rent increases across the metro area, across many other regions across the country as well. So a couple years back, Metro began a process of examining housing
 The nature of the problem across the region, what cities like Portland and others in our jurisdiction are doing to solve the problem, and what role Metro could play. This last fall, our council directed us to move ahead to examine a potential bond measure for November of this year as one of the most appropriate things that Metro can do to supplement the work that cities and counties are already doing.
 So Jess, I think, is now going to begin walking through the framework. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for this chance to be here. My name is Jess Larson. I'm in the Government Affairs Department with my colleague here, Andy Shaw, at Metro. So reiterating just a couple of details and diving a little bit more deeply into some of the elements.
 of the framework, but doing so quite quickly so we can indeed hear from you your feedback and advice for Metro as we move forward. We are looking at a general obligation bond as the revenue mechanism, which will allow for capital financing of newly constructed affordable homes, as well as acquisition of existing housing that may be affordable today, but may be lost in affordability on the market as the market changes throughout our region tomorrow.
 And we also recognize that Metro is not a housing developer and has no intention of creating the bureaucracy to become a housing developer. In fact, we intend to lean on the existing capacity across the region here, especially the city of Portland and your partners at Home Forward, but also the other two housing authorities in Washington and Clackamas County and three additional cities that act as CBOs.
 CDBG entitlement cities, the city of Hillsborough, the city of Beaverton, the city of Gresham, which have much of this capacity already in place. Just tell people what CDBG is. Community Development Block Grant. Thank you, Commissioner.
 We've been convening this process for about the last six months, especially located at two advisory tables, one of technical experts from across the region and another of community stakeholder experts from across the region, totaling over 50 brilliant partners in this work to help give shape to the framework that we're going to present today. We've also had community engagement partnerships with many organizations across the region,
 We are having briefings such as this one across the region over the next few weeks to continue that refining the framework. And there is also a survey online, and we've had, I think, a couple of thousand community members weigh in on their advice to us as we convene this framework. Thank you.
 So these are the elements of the framework and I'm going to move quite quickly through them. We'll start with core values, the ideas that have really framed, given us the guiding principles for as we set forward to do this work. As all of the work at Metro is led with racial equity, the work of creating more affordable homes must especially be led by advancing racial equity in our communities. We know that
 much of the need for affordable housing is disproportionately experienced by communities of color, and the history of housing discrimination is long and dates back to the origination of our country. And so with this measure, we must begin to correct for those wrongs, otherwise risk perpetuating those inequities. So absolutely every part of this
 framework and all of the work going forward in implementation as a region will be led by racial equity. We've also committed to prioritize community members not otherwise served by the market. Of course, the need for housing affordability is wide in our region. All sorts of community members are struggling in this current market of ours and
 becoming a high-cost city, but we know the needs are disproportionately felt by communities of color, low-income community members, families with low wages, senior citizens on fixed incomes, community members with disabilities, et cetera. We've also heard a balance of priority around where to locate the new affordable homes, both in creating new accesses.
 access to new opportunities alongside transportation investments for example, job centers but also investing where communities with low incomes live today to prevent further displacement and neighborhood instability and lastly ensuring that we are being good stewards of limited resources with strong public oversight, administrative caps which we'll talk further about here
 We are proposing in this framework that with an investment of a $516.5 million general obligation bond, we can create homes for as many as 10,000 community members across the region and really tens of thousands of community members over the life of these future homes.
 We have a plan A and a plan B accounting for the possible outcome, two possible outcomes with the constitutional amendment which voters will take up in November. So without the constitutional amendment passing, we can anticipate to build about 2,000 homes for about 6,300 individuals.
 And with the amendment, we can leverage both the partnerships of our nonprofit partners, but also low-income housing tax credits and other revenue tools with the general obligation bond, and thereby increase the outcomes both in homes and the individuals served. Just hold this slide for a second.
 You know, this is very important for us to see because what you're saying, and I'm assuming this is reasonably conservative, is that with the amendment, with the constitutional amendment and allowing us to be more flexible with the dollars,
 we could potentially produce about 50% more housing. But I think it's very important that we all stick to this script because there's been a range of numbers that I've heard in the last couple months, and I operate under the assumption generally that we should under-promise and over-perform. So this says 50%, and I hope that becomes the baseline for our public conversation.
 Thank you. We appreciate that. And yes, indeed, we are working to set high goals, but to ensure that they are achievable goals. Certainly, there are opportunities for local jurisdictions to look at leveraging even further than what our modeling has proposed, but we did not want to require leveraging of all of our jurisdictional partners. So we've modeled modestly, if you will, to make sure that we are achieving further outcomes, but that are within reach across the region. Thank you.
 So I just want to second that. I would rather we go out with conservative or more conservative estimates of what we can actually produce in terms of volume and then prove ourselves to be better than that rather than going the other way. And so I would ask for us to make sure that we are –
 very conservative because what we're running into through our housing bureau is increased construction costs, increased housing stock costs, increased land costs, and general inflationary factors. And there's nothing the public hates more than that.
 than being told they're going to get one thing and then find out they bought something less than that. So I'd really encourage, and the press will latch on to whatever our initial numbers are, they will hang on to that like a dog on a bone. They will not relent. So I would encourage us to be very, very conservative about,
 And as we roll this out, Commissioner Fritz. I know we all have to be very careful about not advocating for things that are on the ballot, and the constitutional amendment is on the ballot. So as an elected official, I have a little bit more scope to get it wrong, or a little bit leaner. So let me just explain that to folks who may be watching at home. You can correct me if I'm wrong. The constitutional amendment that we'll all be voting on in November is to allow local bonds to be –
 used for affordable housing created by non-profit or non-governmental entities. Currently, the Constitution says that if it's a public bond, the public entity has to own that in perpetuity. Is that approximately correct? That's correct. And that's the difference between whether we own and operate it is more expensive than if a non-profit or some other entity owns and operates it.
 That is one element of the difference in any goals that can be achieved. Another element is the requiring of the lending, the recurrent requirement that government shall not lend credit. And because of that, it makes it difficult to leverage other financing mechanisms like low-income housing tax credits under the current Constitution. So there are a couple of reasons why the constitutional amendment will allow for further outcomes. Okay.
 And we want to be clear that we're not advocating for or against the amendment as public servants, but trying to accurately reflect what we think the outcomes would look like. Thank you. A quick reminder that eligible activities under a general obligation bond are limited to capital financing only. So we're anticipating acquisition of buildings, acquisition of land, and the new construction of homes. And this is just further iterating the public ownership element that Commissioner Fritz just mentioned.
 reminded us all of so we can move forward and moving along. A finer point on some of these regional outcomes, beyond the number of homes and the number of people we aim to serve with this measure, we want to focus the goals to specifically serve those community members who struggle the most in our community to find affordable homes. So that means a focus.
 on achieving as many homes at 30% median family income and below. We know that these are the hardest homes to create because they take the deepest public subsidy. Additionally, we have a goal to create at least half of the homes sized for families, again,
 Families are most struggling to find homes that they can afford in this market. A lot of the construction to date is one bedrooms and studios, and we need to make sure there are two, threes, and even four bedrooms available for larger families and intergenerational families in our community.
 In our measure, in this regional measure, we are recommending affordability up to 80% MFI, but limiting that higher affordability range from 60% to 80% as 10% of the total bond proceeds to only construct at that level. This allows for...
 deeper cross-subsidizing for deeper affordability and also allows for some homeownership opportunities in the event that the constitutional amendment passes. Could I ask a question, and I don't know if this is a Jess or an Andy question or both. On the 30 percent, 45 percent of homes below 30 percent MFI,
 First of all, I'll just shamelessly say I'm in the camp that says the more 30% and below, the better. I'd frankly like to see it be a majority. I think it's a better talking point. And I think it gets at several issues that we're experiencing around housing affordability here locally. As you know, many people in the zero to 30%, particularly the closer you get to 30%, are people on SSI, older adults, retirees. They don't necessarily need that.
 housing support. Then, of course, there's the permanent supportive piece of 0 to 30, where we do have to talk about housing support. Do we have clarity yet, or is there a process through which the housing support piece of this would be clarified around permanent supportive housing for those who need housing support at the 0 to 30 percent?
 We are not, and thank you, Mayor, for that question. We're not at this point requiring or recommending any specific goals around supportive housing, partially because a
 General obligation bond allows for only capital financing. So the supportive housing programming will be made possible through partnerships with our, especially our county, our three counties, who will help to partner and leverage those services in conjunction with the future homes. But we absolutely agree, and Metro is committed to finding that, to, to,
 Creating those partnerships and committing those resources in conjunction with these future homes that we can ensure that we are serving the community members We intend to and ensure their success in affordable housing great because I my suspicion is that that is a question That will have to be well baked particularly with regard to the county and the support services That are to be provided a commission you daily. Did you have a question? I couldn't tell I do Yeah
 I have a whole list of questions, but I think I'll just jump in as the subject arises. I agree with the mayor. I would really like to see the vast majority of these funds focused on 0 to 30, 50 at the highest. I think I know that there's an issue of the mix, I guess, of...
 of rental levels and ongoing funding and all that, and I'd love to gain a greater understanding, but in my reading of all the data, it seems that what we really need to do is focus our scant public dollars on those extremely low-income households who are at 0 to 30. 30 to 50 would be the next range, and...
 And that means we're getting people not just off the street and into that 0 to 30 housing, but out of unaffordable housing and into affordable housing, which then opens up that range of 50 to 80 that we still see a need, a much less great need in that 50 to 80 range. So I guess I'm interested in your thoughts on that and why...
 I mean, I think we can do it, but if you think we can't, why? And I guess...
 Yeah, I'll stick with that one question for now. Thank you, Commissioner. And this goes back to, Mayor, your question as well. You're absolutely right. The goal should be, and we believe is, to maximize the creation of homes at 30% MFI and below. And it does take additional rent incomes to help cover those lower rents because...
 the rent that a 30% MFI household brings in is not enough to cover the monthly operating costs that that tenant requires. And even if a building itself carries no debt and is fully financed or paid off,
 the operations aren't enough in the case of a 30% MFI apartment, so it does require cross-subsidy. In the case of the Portland general obligation bond, there was an opportunity to leverage the cross-subsidizing with a commitment of vouchers from the Portland Housing Bureau, pardon me, from Home Forward.
 that helped to achieve the goals of 45% MFI in the Portland bond. In our case, those vouchers are already committed from Home Forward to the current Portland bond. We have a commitment of 200 vouchers from Washington County and Clackamas County so far to help achieve those goals. Each? Each. And so –
 And yet we're trying to achieve even more homes on the regional level. So that is part of the reason for needing a higher percent MFI and actually recognizing that there's more work to do to identify ongoing operating cost resources to achieve these goals. Yeah, I think it's just, I mean, it's a challenging equation because I also don't want exclusively extremely low-income housing. I want mixed-income housing. We all know that that's...
 That's the standard to strive for. It's just tough to see any of those dollars going towards housing that I think we could incentivize in the private market, and I'm talking about 60 to 80. Couldn't we feasibly come up with another funding, another revenue stream to be able to divert those dollars to 0 to 30? Yeah.
 Certainly there are other resources to talk about it. Our challenge is going to be working with you and others to identify the support of housing services to match with these dollars in the months and years to come.
 that's where we're focusing our energy on new resources. As a regional program, we're hearing from nonprofits across the region who practice in this field that this is a pretty audacious goal to achieve and getting some trepidation about the ability to...
 have those rents maintain these buildings at those affordable levels for the duration for permanently. So we're trying to balance that deep affordability, larger bedrooms, with an ability to put some that are 60 to 80 and bring a little more rent into the picture for a particular building. That's the advice we've heard from our technical table today.
 who's worked through some pretty significant modeling work to understand how we can get to the place where we are making a bold promise, but a promise that we can actually achieve. Okay. I'm sure I'll have more questions. Thanks. Let me just jump in for a sec. So I have the same concerns. I just want to approach it slightly differently. And first I want to do a disclosure. I set three goals for this year. One is to win the primary. Okay.
 Two is to beat cancer, and three is to work with our partners to pass the regional housing bond. Maybe not in all that. Maybe not in that order. And we got one down, and now I've agreed to serve on the PAC board, and I'm going to start doing fundraising with the mayor for this effort. So that's our next big challenge. I realize that in setting the –
 framework for the bond, we have to be responsive to what our partners think. We have to be responsive to what we think will pass, get majority support from the voters. And we obviously want to set goals that we can achieve. That said, I can't remember a time when we didn't get pushback around permanent supportive housing.
 Let's just be clear. Every time this issue comes up, we get pushback. And it isn't just from one corner. Our nonprofit partners push back because they're
 And sometimes the tenants that they serve are more challenging than others. Sometimes there are gaps in funding, both in terms of affordability and services, which they don't want to be saddled with. I mean, there's a whole host of reasons why even our nonprofit partners sometimes are resistant. My concern with the number of 45 is that, as with my colleagues, I think that should be more like a floor than a ceiling.
 And I think the one thing I'm hearing clearly from this body is that we're not sure 45 is the right number, but we would certainly not want to go below 45, and we would like to see if there's an argument for going above. And so the answer is why, right? Why? Because we're not actually here talking about housing. We're talking about poverty.
 We're talking about very poor people that don't have choices, and either we provide them with stable housing or we continue to fund the most expensive and least efficient service delivery system ever devised by government, which is what we have as a default.
 So that's the choice, and I think the public now understands that, which is why permanent supportive housing has taken on. It's why the mayor, and I compliment him, set aside $3 million in his budget for services, of which $2 million will be really targeted to permanent supportive housing. So let me follow up on Commissioner Udaly's question and ask you, an obvious candidate for where we get those service dollars is the transient lodging tax. And so we are in conversations, the county, the city, and Metro. Okay.
 And, you know, there's millions of dollars that could be allocated to this. Are we getting close to a deal with the three jurisdictional partners to have a big chunk of that set aside to cover service dollars? We are having a very positive conversation. In fact, Monday I will be meeting with your staff and county staff to flesh out what a bucket in that bucket system might actually look like. Okay. So, Mayor, having been to this rodeo a few times with our colleagues here,
 and I'm looking at Dan, who probably has been to this rodeo more than anyone else here. But just to put a fine point on it, I remember that every time we ever talked about a bucket,
 involving the hospitality industry, it got complicated because people, too many hands started getting into the bucket. And we started trying to solve too many worthy, you know, laudable goals through the bucket. And I would urge us in this moment to be really focused on the challenge that's in front of us and not be seduced by the idea that a bucket can serve lots of different needs. Thank you.
 Because if you do the math, and the math I'm operating under is for a typical unit where we need to both buy down the affordability and provide the services, we're talking plus or minus $16,000. All right, so you do the math on that, that's $1.6 million just to get 100 units. So this is not cheap. Again –
 The alternative is so much more expensive. It's just that it's distributed to the system and we pay for it in many, many different ways. I would hope that building on the mayor's budget with the money he has set aside, that the three jurisdictional partners can really focus on the TLT side and carve out a big chunk for that. And then I think it's incumbent on our other metro regional partners to throw some money in the hopper.
 I mean, they are being benefited by this as well. So I would hope that the conversation extends to what can Clackamas and Washington County, for example, do? What resources can they bring to the table? Because we cannot fund a big chunk of these affordable units without the service dollars. And while it's not going to be the question before the voters, I think we have an obligation to identify the sources. And I'll close by...
 recalling I think the first conversation that I ever had with Dan Saltzman about transportation. And I had been lulled into a false sense that Dan was the fiscal conservative on the council. And we were being asked under the Adams administration to go forward with the orange line, and yet we had no plan to pay for it.
 And Dan was enthusiastically voting to move forward, and I turned to him and said, because I thought at the time Dan was our fiscal conservative, I said, Dan, how can we say yes, give the yes sign to this orange line without knowing how to fund it? And he said, well, he said invariably once we set the direction and we set the policy, we find the dollars.
 It becomes our priority to get those federal dollars, the local dollars, the match. He said we're very resourceful, but we first have to set the vision. Well, that's what we've done with the 2,000 units of supportive housing. We set the vision, and we said we are going to fund it. And I think we should take the same approach to these service dollars here, that we should commit collectively to find those dollars so that this works. I'm seeing a nod, so I hope that's a positive. Thank you.
 Before you even answer that, just come back to the transient lodging tax, because I think we're getting a bit off track from this bond measure, which maybe we should get back on it. But could you make sure that I'm in the loop for the transient lodging tax since I'm on the Development Fund Board? I mean, we already get 6%, I believe, for the city's general fund from that. There isn't going to be any more money. So if we're going to divide it differently, that might mean less money. This is new money that we are currently negotiating.
 And you and I are on the board, I think, that spends it. We're now talking about the revenue source. We'd be happy to come and provide a briefing. Thank you very much. Yes. All right.
 Finishing up real quickly, the question of distribution of resources have been of great import across the region, wondering how the dollars will be distributed back to the local communities and also how the goals of creating these homes will be distributed. We, through a very complicated process, have landed on a simple agreement and recommendation that the,
 resources be distributed based on assessed value of homes, property tax base, to the three counties. But along with those resources come the commitment of Clackamas County achieving 21% of the goals and outcomes with this housing measure, as well as Multnomah County achieving 45% of the goals with 45% of the resources, and Washington County at 34% of resources and goals.
 Metro has a unique expertise to lend to the effort of achieving these goals in that we currently operate a transient oriented development program specifically around land acquisition in conjunction with future transportation investments and we're proposing that our role in contributing to the region's efforts
 in achieving those outcomes and creating these homes across the region will be through land acquisitions we're proposing that 10 of the resources be spent by metro acquiring land in partnership with 90 of those resources distributed across the region as described in the previous slide to our local partners who will be developing owning and operating the the buildings
 Could I jump in on this one? So this one, as you know, is near and dear to my heart. And I'm sorry we're nerding out after 4 o'clock in the afternoon on this stuff. But first of all, I want to applaud your focus on transit-oriented development. I think that is exactly the right kind of thing for Metro to be considering as part of this discussion.
 overall program, but I still have questions about anti-displacement strategies. Could you talk to me about that a little bit? And I want to give you a concrete example. There is a housing play that the Housing Bureau has been engaged in. It was brought to us initially by the community, and we have engaged the
 a landlord, but once the landlord realizes the city of Portland is interested in it, he's basically jacking up the price to a ridiculous degree. So I'm worried about that impact. What have you thought about or what is your strategy for thinking about how to develop an anti-displacement strategy where we're not paying top dollar?
 So over time, our transit oriented development program has been geared towards exactly getting ahead of the market. We know where we're planning light rail lines, where we're planning bus rapid transit, and we are able to use the limited federal dollars in the TOD program to acquire lands and to work with developers to add more density
 Historically, that's been the focus. Recently, we've supported the development of over 800 units of affordable housing with the TOD program. So the concept is, and you were very close to this with the Southwest Corridor proposal, how do we blend resources into that proposal to acquire lands, sometimes acquire buildings, to get ahead of displacement that could occur when values rise after the investment is made? So-
 Southwest Corridor is years out before it would actually open and have the kind of impact on real estate. So the ability to have this program in place that can work in Southwest Corridor, along Division, in other parts of the region where we're planning future transportation and transit improvements, that's the goal is to get at that anti-displacement approach. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thanks. Thanks.
 And then finally, touching on oversight and administration, as with much of our experience in pulling together the framework for this measure, we are learning from the precedent and lessons learned through the current housing bond and your staff at the Portland Housing Bureau. We have done a...
 a comprehensive assessment of the capacity across the region to implement these resources in a near-term, five to seven year timeframe. We believe that it is very reasonable to commit a cap to administrative costs
 at 7% at the regional level with all of the partners involved in administrating this program, both for oversight compliance, the cost of transacting the bonds, et cetera. We are also recommending that a community oversight committee be appointed by Metro Council to oversee the regional program year by year, making sure we are tracking on the goals and outcomes we have committed to voters. And first, in order to...
 prepare for the implementation of the measure, we will, following measure referral, begin to work with the partnering jurisdictions towards crafting intergovernmental agreements, which have a comprehensive local implementation strategy of how each jurisdiction intends to achieve the goals
 with their reserved revenue through this bond and set forth a plan to start implementing as soon as the, or soon thereafter the, after the measure is passed, following a brief community engagement process to vet all of those plans. So ensuring comprehensive oversight and efficient administration of the resources. And then I think the last slide is just a,
 is where we are right now in our timeline, having briefings like this one today in community groups, other commissions and boards across the region. We convened the final two meetings of the technical and stakeholder advisory tables
 tomorrow and Monday. And the following Tuesday, the staff recommendation will be given by our COO Martha Bennett to our council for their consideration and it is anticipated they will take up the vote for this measure and potentially refer it to voters on June 7th. So that is the completion of our presentation. We welcome any further advice or feedback or clarifying questions you may have.
 So is your 7% administrative cap written into the ballot measure? Yes, indeed. Yes. Or will be. Yes, that's the proposal, yes. Okay, that's good. So high opportunity areas, proximity to schools, health care, parks, transportation, and the like, I assume this will give credence to that and investments in those areas? So we heard a balance of both investing in communities where –
 low-income families live, where communities of color live, where there's a common language spoken, where there are other kinds of cultural resources. That was one thing we heard. We also heard create opportunities in places where you're proximate to transit, where there are more jobs, where there are schools with lower dropout rates, et cetera. So the distribution method that we landed on, assessed value, is really a proxy for a very complicated set of formulas we used
 that map out where are opportunity neighborhoods and where are existing low-income households who are rent-burdened, where does the resource come from. And when you balance that all out, it was awfully close to assessed value. So that felt like a good way to distribute funds out to ensure that communities in Clackamas, communities in Washington, and in Multnomah County are all building homes in both existing communities where low-income families reside and in places where people may choose to move to create.
 to take access to other opportunities very good thank you colleagues any further questions commissioner daly uh so we talked about this at one of the mpac meetings and i realized that some of what we want to do with the bond is contingent upon the constitutional amendment passing in the fall i i'm assuming you're being careful about crafting the language to kind of allow for either
 Yes. And has there been any more conversation about any of the bond money being utilized for land trusts or limited equity housing cooperatives just to provide homeownership opportunities for low-income households? Yes. We want to craft the measure in a way that allows for jurisdictions to explore that space of homeownership. It really only works if the Constitution is changed to allow the blending of nonprofit and public dollars or private and public dollars. And then if –
 Oh, sorry, Jess, go ahead. To clarify, homeownership in a land trust model because we are committing to voters' permanency and affordability, and that can only be achieved with a land trust. And if the amendment does pass, does that change the equation or the balance between 0 to 30, 30 to 60, 60 to 80? No.
 Indeed, yes. Indeed, it makes it more challenging. The opportunity to leverage debt means the responsibility to pay back that debt, and it makes the goals towards deep affordability more challenging. We are doing very comprehensively.
 comprehensive analysis of all of the potential outcomes and opportunities and challenges of that reality and are so far working to solve for keeping the commitment to zero to 30, which may mean leaving some debt unleveraged. Yeah. And then my final question is,
 Why $500 million? It seems low to me. Early polls showed that twice that has a good chance of passing with the voters. And I'm just concerned. We're also hearing word of a $2 billion transit or light rail bond. I would like to see the reverse of that, frankly. I don't know how we can...
 that kind of an investment in light rail when we have seen a pattern of displacement around major transit projects and a rejection in ridership because those low-income community members are being replaced by more affluent residents who don't rely on public transportation. So a couple different issues at play there, but...
 We shouldn't leave any money on the table with this one. On the measure size question, we've heard from a number of quarters, go big, think larger than 500. We started with 500 as a sort of place to start and a modeling exercise. We moved it to $516 million in 2019.
 because that through the modeling work we did, we think we could achieve service to 10,000 people with the Constitution changing. We think that's pretty audacious, but we are hearing from folks, look at what you could do if you asked for more money. Just a comment on the polling results.
 We tested a ballot title, and that got good results. We tested asking people, are you willing to spend $100 or $50 or $25? That got much more positive responses. But that's not the actual question that the voters vote on. They vote on the ballot title question. So we're trying to work to understand what's the appropriate amount in terms of
 what can get out the door through our partners, but also what the voters we think would be willing to invest. But 516 isn't the last word. It was the initial framework proposal. That's correct. And we're hearing a lot of folks suggest that we think north of that. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Is there a requirement to spend the money within a certain amount of time? No.
 There is not, I'm not familiar with any of the bond measures that we've run in the past for parks or for the zoo or other places committing a timeframe in the measure. We have talked about trying to spend the money in five to seven years.
 Like the goals for how many units, the voters are going to hear that and will likely hold us to those commitments, but it's not something generally we've put in the requirements of the measure itself. So, because they might probably have looked at the capacity of the construction industry to handle a billion dollars of construction in five to seven years.
 And multiple jurisdictions looking to acquire the right land and move through the development process, make sure the zoning is correct. So many steps along the way that just make it take some number of years to get these homes constructed. But we want to...
 put a time clock on ourselves and on our local jurisdiction partners to get that money out the door in five to seven years. And since it's capital and it's on top of property tax limitations, we can do this one, get it massively successful within five years, and then do another one? Correct. It's not like a levy. It's not like a levy. It doesn't cause compression. It gets paid off over time. Yes. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. I have a couple more questions. Sure. You know, we've been watching the Portland Public School Board
 struggle with the fact that despite best intentions, there are market forces which make it difficult to meet certain commitments. Already, I think the Mayor alluded to inflation in construction costs. The flip side of that is if you hit a recession, there are projects that no longer go forward, and as –
 habitat learned with Mr. Gray's money, they could go and acquire land and land bank during a recession. But I think we have to be careful because I think the general consensus is that we may hit a bump in the market in the next few years.
 And while that may create some opportunities, it may also make it harder for us to do deals if tax credits become less affordable and blah, blah, blah. So I like the fact that it gives us the flexibility and that it's not committing to a specific arbitrary timeline because we're not smarter than the market. Mm-hmm.
 The second thing I want to ask you, just going back to the service side for a second, I seem to recall that Chair Khafre said that she had some dollars as the county chair, which linked up with people coming out of prison or people in mental health crisis, where she might be able to program those dollars a little differently to put services within an apartment. And that was within her discretion.
 I wonder whether we're having the same conversations with the county chairs of the other counties as to whether they have some flexibility with dollars, again, people coming out of jail, mental health, and others, that could be reprogrammed to provide those services. Deborah has a clear understanding of where those pots of money are and how they relate to state funding, but I would encourage us to take a look at that. Thank you, Commissioner. Great advice.
 Very good. Excellent presentation. Thank you for being here and sharing this with us. Thank you for taking the time today. And obviously to be continued. Indeed. Thank you so much. We appreciate it very much. Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to shift this around a bit because I don't want to lose our quorum. Can we do 486 next, please?
 46, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Halsey Apartments located at 1515 Northeast 28th Avenue. Very good. So this apartment building, Halsey Apartments...
 We'll have eight of the 52 units affordable to households earning up to 80% of area median income for 99 years as part of the inclusionary housing program. The eight IH units will be composed of one studio and seven one-bedroom units. The owners, UDG 28th and Halsey LLC, are building a total of 52 new units. The multiple unit limited tax exemption or multi-program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing projects.
 choosing to make units affordable rather than paying a fee in lieu. Each multi-application comes before the City Council for approval. In addition to the 10-year tax exemption provided by the multi, this project will receive an exemption of the affordable housing construction excise tax that otherwise would have been due on the affordable units.
 This project will join the other 24 private sector projects in the inclusionary housing permit approval pipeline, making a minimum of 167 units affordable in otherwise market rate developments. Greetings.
 Greetings. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I'm Shannon Callahan of the Portland Housing Bureau. I'm actually joined by Cassie Graves, our Development Incentives Program Coordinator, who works closely with BDS and all of our projects in the pipeline. I know you've already heard the details from the Mayor, and we're just here to answer any questions that you may have about this project. Colleagues, any questions? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Call the roll. Saltzman? Looks great. Aye. Aye.
 You daily. Aye. Fritz. It's good to see these coming through. I do wonder why we're required to have public hearings on them. It just seems almost administrative at this point, and it's really good to have it being so administrative feeling. Well done. Aye. Wheeler. Good work. Excellent. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 487, please.
 Increase compensation for subrecipient contracts with Legal Aid Services of Oregon and Community Alliance of Tenants in the amount of $100,000. Add a subrecipient contract with JOIN in the amount of $110,000 for the provision of services in support of coordinated eviction prevention. Thank you.
 Colleagues, the Portland Housing Bureau is planning to conduct an eviction pilot for specific families who face forcible entry detainers, FEDs, through a combination of referral services, base-level legal advice, education, advocacy and support services.
 As part of this anti-displacement efforts headed by the Bureau, this specific request is to fund the eviction pilot program. We're working with established nonprofit partners, as you heard, including the Community Alliance of Tenants, Legal Aid Service of Oregon, and JOIN. This collaboration will administer intake, screening, legal advice, and representation.
 General support has already been expressed by the Multnomah County Circuit Court for this pilot program. Though Portland Housing Bureau does fund existing programs that provide familiar services, the pilot program is being created to improve access in a one-stop methodology and will provide comprehensive eviction prevention services.
 This pilot is aimed at helping us understand whether a comprehensive approach can aid in providing long-term housing stability for households, while simultaneously helping households to navigate through the turbulence of housing instability. Council, if you have any questions about this program, we have Kim McCarty, we have Uma Krishnan from the Housing Bureau, and, of course, we have Director Callahan. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman.
 Just a comment. I'd like to thank our staff for all of the work to develop this pilot project with our partners. Households facing eviction or who have an eviction are unable to rent in our market, often become homeless if they are able to rent.
 they are usually living in substandard housing. This pilot is especially important to us to gather more information, make sure that we can help folks prevent them from homelessness, and we will be happy to bring back the results of this pilot project to you and would hope that you would see a request to continue this if successful in the next budget cycle. Very good. When would you, I think, have been in that report?
 We're hoping sometime in December because it's a short-term project. Fabulous. Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this? I'm sorry, Commissioner Daly. I'm sorry. I may have missed it. But do you know about how many households we may be able to serve? Yes.
 I know that we're planning on doing about 50 through direct legal assistance so that LASSO or others would represent them, but we're not planning on that just being the total number. Okay. Kim, do you have an estimate? We estimate approximately 30 households and then more with more indirect services. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Public testimony on this side, Carla. No one signed up. One person would like to testify. Come on up. Good afternoon.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity Watchdog. I do approve of the increase in compensation. One of the issues I may have is that I understand you're increasing the Community Alliance of Tenants contract of $25,000, if I'm reading this properly. Again, if you're increasing that...
 Does that mean that they've spent their funds or that we're able to look at where the money has gone prior to this? Because you're asking for an increase. So that's just a question I'm posing at this time. Another issue I have is that one of the biggest concerns, I guess, and I want to make it clear it refers to this, is that when we were talking the state of the housing in Portland report, and why I'm asking this is that I really feel that by looking at
 All of the groups that are on here, I wanted to see NAYA receive some additional money. And I'll explain to you why, referring to this, is that when you look at the state of the housing report, if you go down every neighborhood, you'll see a decrease for Native Americans in the population from the year of 2000 to 2015. But you don't just see a small decrease.
 When they were at 7,000 or 12,125 in the year 2000, they dropped through the neighborhoods down to about 4,500. And then if you go down neighborhood by neighborhood, the amount of decrease is alarming to me. It's like, why are so many Native Americans moving out of the neighborhoods? And is it to do with their economic condition? And is the city providing...
 any assistance. And again, I hope that you'll review that report number by number. And understanding what I'm talking about is alarming to me. And it needs to be looked at very close because if you look at the decrease in population in the neighborhoods to the Native Americans, it's almost every neighborhood. And the numbers are 50% and higher of the population base in
 It's alarming to me why this is happening at this time. Do they need additional funding to stay in the neighborhoods? Do they need assistance to stay in the neighborhoods? Are they able to stay in their current housing in the neighborhoods? But why are we not addressing this? Why are we not looking at that data and saying, this is alarming. This is alarming. And so from my position, I'm hoping NAYA might receive additional funding. They will come back with data.
 that will explain why this is taking place in the city, in the neighborhoods, and come back with some information that will allow the public to look at this and say, this is alarming, what are we going to do about it? Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Very excited about this pilot, and I hope it becomes permanent. Aye. Aye.
 Friends. Aye. Wheeler. Great work. Thank you. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 485. Authorize limited tax revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed $10.5 million to finance replacement of aging fueling system infrastructure at multiple locations across the city. So, colleagues, this ordinance authorizes the issuance of up to $10.5 million of limited tax revenue bonds
 to finance the replacement of aging fueling stations at four locations in the city. I want to be clear, our fleet is moving towards electrification and non-carbon-based sources of fuel. However, many of our vehicles, particularly our larger vehicles, think fire trucks, large utilities and the like, utility vehicles and the like, still rely on these systems. Okay.
 Many of them are extremely antiquated, and they are environmentally unsound, as well as presenting potential safety hazards. The total estimated cost of replacements is currently $8.5 million. However, due to certain project risks, including the potentially for the
 potential for the discovery of soil contamination at some of the sites, an additional $2 million is included in this authorization in the event that remediation is required. We expect to initially fund project costs through a line of credit. Upon determination of the final costs of the project, and that's expected by July 2020, we expect to issue long-term limited tax revenue bonds to provide permanent financing.
 While the bonds will be full faith and credit obligations to the city, debt service will be paid through charges to city fleet customers based on their fuel usage. Good afternoon. Thank you. Hopefully I got that right. You got it exactly right. Glad you did. Eric Johanson, city debt manager, BRFS. I really have nothing to add to that. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. This is a non-emergency reading. Excuse me. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Robert's still laughing over there about that one. 488, second reading.
 Amend contract with Just Bucket Excavating Inc. in the amount of $141,860. Accept contract as complete. Release retainage and authorize final payment. Call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. E. Bailey. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 489. Amend City Comprehensive Financial Management Policy 2.04.
 Commissioner Saltzman. Want to give it to me? You recognize me? Yeah, I'm recognizing you. Thank you, Mayor. This item really comes out of my service of almost 20 years on the City Council and my belief that we could improve some of our financial policies to make our budgeting process more transparent and make us more accountable to our public.
 So the changes are relatively simple, and I'll outline them. And if you like, I could talk more about why I think we need to do these. Commissioner Stoltz, could I ask a question? And I'm not saying no. I want to be very clear. But it was my understanding that you were not going to present this today. Is that correct? Or it obviously is incorrect. Yeah, I was planning –
 to do it today? So we do have two of our colleagues have left. I actually have an excused absence starting now. So if you want to just make your presentation and then we could set it over or something like that. I mean, obviously you want to make the presentation, but we don't have two of our colleagues here. Yeah. Do we have staff to make a presentation or are you just going to do it on your own? Andrew Scott was going to be here to answer any questions. OK, why don't we go ahead and do the... Should we do the presentation and then we can continue it to another day? Is that acceptable?
 Okay, or we could just do it now, do it all now. We have three of us here. Well, as I say, I had a 4.30 excused absence. I have an event, so I'm supposed to be at 5. I can be very quick. It's a very straightforward...
 I mean, if the preference, if I'm hearing this, the preference is for this proposal to just go away, then I'd rather you tell me that. And then I will go away. I like the proposal. I do want to hear it, but I want to make sure we give it the due consideration it deserves. I'm perfectly happy to hear the presentation today, but I think we should then leave it so that our colleagues have a chance to chime in on it.
 Okay. Does that make sense? Yes, and I have some chiming in to do too. It's just that I'm guessing they're anxious. Okay, great. And we have Director Scott sitting in our position. Thank you. So these changes will do the following. One is it relates to our budget monitoring process or bump process as we all know it inside this building. And most people I think outside of the building don't have no idea what the bump process is. But it's adjustments we make to our adopted budget throughout the year.
 And it's been the policy, the current financial policy, is only to make requests for additional general fund resources for emergencies during that current fiscal year. We've gotten away from honoring that policy, and we've begun to allocate excess funding in the bump process for non-emergency purposes, which when we do it that way, and I'm as guilty as anybody when we do it that way,
 We are bypassing any public involvement process. We have no budget committees looking at these. We have no budget advisory committees or citizen mayor's budget panel looking at this. It's totally exempt from any public scrutiny, and yet we are spending quite a bit of money lately through a general fund, new resources in the bump process. I think what really alerted me to this was when we did our fall 2017-2018 fall supplemental budget, or fall bump.
 We created 66 new positions in city government, and I believe we spent $28 million in new general fund resources. And again, a process that is more or less invisible to our public. And it just felt we needed to do something different. And so what I'm proposing is that this resolution would require me and other commissioners in charge who are requesting excess general funds, new general funds in a bump process.
 To certify first that they can't find those funds through realigning within their own bureau's budget, that that is not possible. And then secondly, that they would need to offer that as an amendment, as a freestanding amendment during the bump process. So it wouldn't be part of the bump ordinance. It would have to be offered by that commissioner in the full public view of our meetings that we have on Wednesdays or Thursdays. And be voted up or down by all of us as to whether that's a good idea.
 how to spend new general fund resources. So I think that's probably the one that's maybe the most change in how we do business. My other two changes are simply to, I think, bring our special appropriations process a little more disciplined. I think that we have to, and this is something we adopted at the Portland Children's Lobby from day one, we limit the amount of money we grant to an organization to not exceed 35% of their operating budget.
 Because we don't want organizations to become so reliant on us alone, the children's levy, or in this case, I would say, the city general fund. So that would be a limitation. And then we would also direct that organizations seeking a special appropriation may only make that request once every three years. And again, it's designed for the same purposes. So the organizations don't become so reliant on the city for their funding that they become, again, a shadow budget obligation, which we've...
 We've had in the past where many organizations are so used to getting one-time funding from us that it really becomes an ongoing funding obligation. So I believe that these changes are short, sweet, but they will produce, they will help future city councils in managing the city's finances. And as I said, Andrew Scott is here to answer any questions or give any comments if he wants. Very good. Come on up, Director Scott. Well, actually, I'd like to...
 defer that part because I'd like to put my concerns or suggestions on the table and then continue the discussion. Okay, well let's do this. First of all, I want to commend Commissioner Saltzman. I think this is a bold and provocative proposal. I think there's a lot of good meat here, and I think it is worthy of a more robust conversation at the end of an eight-hour council session on a day when we've been doing budgets.
 There's some good stuff and worthy stuff, and I would like to have a chance to absorb this and think about it. And Director Scott, for as long as I've got you, I'd like to ask perhaps some follow-up questions offline, and then let's come back and have this conversation. I think it's a good one to have. Can we have a time next week to have this conversation? Yeah, let's see what we can come up with. So don't run out of the agenda? To be clear, I am the co-sponsor of this, so I'd like to make my comments as well. Oh, absolutely. You bet. Thank you.
 In discussing the financial policy changes, my initial goal was to make the capital set aside dedicated to transportation parks and emergency preparedness permanent. There's currently a four-year sunset on the dedication to those particular services. After talking with Commissioner Saltzman, we agreed to pursue a wider set of financial policy reforms to advance fiscal responsibility and sustainability.
 There are some amendments to the filed resolution which I would like to discuss. So I hope, as I say, I would like to put the policy changes on the table and then carry it over. Some of the things I'd like to discuss, in addition to the dedication of the set-aside funds,
 Commissioner Saltzman mentioned about the 35% of the operating budget. I think we should add to that, except when the grantee has no paid staff. Because some of the special appropriations, they don't have an operating budget. They're for a particular something, and it's volunteers doing them. So that's something to discuss.
 I think there's an opportunity to discuss what we were talking about this morning with the Americans with Disabilities Act, that that should be part of the policies, and also potentially something relating to unreinforced masonry and seismic resilience as prioritization in city spending. I think...
 The current financial policy talks about prioritizing maintenance over new facilities. We need to add to that, unless acquisition is necessary to address equitable provisions of services citywide. We don't just maintain the parks we have. We need to provide parks in places that don't have them, for example.
 There's a question of whether the auditor is added to the bump discussions and then the labor costs at the time of the labor agreements. That's something that I'm afraid that the system will be gamed and we'll hear from...
 Every union will have to close six fire stations or cut down, you know, not have the traffic division or whatever. So I'd like to see if there's any kind of honing of the language that we could get to make it clear that, no, you can't put the Washington Monument on the table at the same time as this labor agreement. We honestly want you to think of, are there some internal reductions that you could take in order to pay for this?
 So those are some of the things that I think it would be helpful to discuss. So I think this is actually, this will be a really good conversation, because I agree that there's an opportunity here to add some fiscal principles. I think there's a, I think Commissioner Saltzman is right to have called out the question about what is the purpose of a bump.
 And do we need to rein that in? And do we need to have a conversation about increased discipline around the bump? I think the answer is certainly yes. And so I'd like to have those conversations. Commissioner Fritz, I think you've added some good ideas to the table. Do you want to add those as amendments today? Or would you like us just to continue the conversation and have you put those on the table later? What's your preference? I had proposed them as amendments, and I think there's some reason that we couldn't do it earlier.
 We have to run them by the city attorney and the chief financial officer as well. Okay. Why don't we do – do we have space next week, Carla, where we could put this on a time certain, please? It would be 4 o'clock on Wednesday. That's after the private for hire co-change. Yeah, that's not going to work. What about Thursday? What about Wednesday morning sometime? Okay.
 It'd be 11 o'clock. Okay. I'd rather take 11 on Wednesday then. Because it'll be the same thing. I'll be completely exhausted. Yeah, it'll be the same thing next week. Yeah. Yeah. Good. So 11 a.m. next Wednesday. Yeah. Time certain works. Carla, can you remind me of the date, please? That's May 23rd. May 23rd. So we are continuing item 489 to next Wednesday, May 23rd, time certain, 11 a.m. And with that, lest I miss something...
 We are adjourned. Thank you.