All right. Let's resume then. Good afternoon. Welcome to the continued City Council hearing on the comp plan amendments for May 12th. Would you please read the roll? Fish, Saltzman, Novick, Fritz, Hales. Here. Okay. We are back to where we left off, and that is, help us out there, team number...
 Well, it would be item number 55. Item number 55, which is the Metro properties. Before we start that, there's a couple. I need to, Eric, I need to read the titles first. Okay. Item 505, adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update on Portland's comprehensive plan. Accept report of the Citizen Involvement Committee. Item 506, adopt a new comprehensive plan for the City of Portland, Oregon.
 Charlie, would you please record me as present? Okay. So before we start in where we left off, there were three clarifications we wanted to get from you on votes you had yesterday just to make sure we got it correct. Okay. So I wanted to go through those first. And then I believe we also held over the Metro item to start with. And we do have a gentleman from Metro here to respond to questions you may have. Good. As we suspected. Okay.
 The items we wanted to clarify first was related to S21, and that's on page 9 of the updated list of motions in the agenda. That was the Buckman Motion D that you passed. Correct. We wanted to verify with you that when you passed Motion D, the wording isn't very clear, but –
 You intended us to not only hold off on the zoning for the R5 area west of the Lone Fur Cemetery, but Motion D incorporated the substance of Motion C, too, which also holds off on the zoning in the square east of Lone Fur between Stark and Belmont and 30th and the cemetery. We wanted to verify that that was your intent. I thought we were holding off on the entire circle.
 Is that not correct? Well, there are other – those were the only two changes related to that issue in that circle. The other changes in the circle were things unrelated to this issue, like non-conforming commercial uses and other things like that. I would encourage you to be broader rather than narrower, because it was certainly my intent in looking at the area outlined in yellow.
 That you were going to look at all that area? With regard to residential density, that doesn't mean that there aren't other zoning changes or other comp plan map changes happening in that area that had nothing to do with the residential density. Okay. Does everybody share that understanding? No one has a problem with that? Thank you. Okay. Okay, so that was the first one. We want to make sure we understood that. The second one was related to S-12, which is the 17th and Inslee –
 parcel, which is number 47 on page 14. Staff, when you asked the question, what does this revert to, the amendment failed, and you asked the question, what does this revert to, and we said R1, and we wanted to clarify that, in fact, it's a combination of R1 and R2,
 And our 2.5, the amendment was here. Back half of those slots was our 2.5. There's some blocks in that square that had been RH that would revert to our 2.5. And we just wanted to, for the record, make sure that you understood that and have you nod there. Comfortable with that? Everybody else is comfortable with that? Having not approved the amendment, it goes back to the old pattern. Yeah, we just incorrectly stated what the old pattern was, and we wanted to clear that up. Did you wake up in the middle of the night realizing that?
 I did. I got like three emails first thing in the morning. That helps you, right? I'm glad to know that people are watching. I realized. The final thing is we inadvertently skipped over a small piece of the 60th Avenue question in our –
 discussion there and we wanted to circle back and get you to vote on this remaining piece that we had skipped over. This was M 71. What number? It was part of the 60th Avenue station area. So it was, um, just take me a minute to number 44, 44. Okay. Yes. And we, we've had you vote on 45, but we never got around to 71. Um,
 And we moved on. So 71 was just the other side of the freeway where the area in outline on the screen here is currently RH, and the amendment was to take that to R1.
 And you did not vote on that, so we would like you to. No, we didn't vote on that. I'm sure we didn't, but we may have looked at it. But R1, and it's obviously surrounded by a lot of R1, right? Correct. One little piece of central employment in the middle? What is that?
 That one little piece is a mixed-use, dispersed property that has some offices in it, I believe. It's an office building. Yeah. It's kind of a triangular-shaped building that's fairly visible on the freeway. And this is – Oh, right. This amendment is supported by the Royal City Park Neighborhood Association, correct? This one, I believe, is actually in North Tabor. North Tabor. But –
 And the rationale here partly is the lot pattern. RH is not that ideal with 5,000 square foot lots. R1 may be a more easily configurable zone with that kind of lot pattern. Okay. Anyone have any questions about this? So I'll move the map changes shown in M71. Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Nielsen.
 fritz hi hi okay thanks sorry you woke had to wake up in the middle of the night to think about that but appreciate the cleanup so now we move on to where we left off uh in the list uh number 55 and um so we want to bring up some folks from metro because we did have some questions about this so thanks for coming over on fairly short notice while we're working our way through these amendments but we did have some questions for you about this
 So to put a little bit of context on this, we've had some correspondence back and forth with Metro concerning the designation of a number of their properties. We've resolved some confusion about a number of properties prior to this, but your decision has come down to a couple that you had some follow-up questions on. Primarily, there are sites that are existing properties,
 where the existing zoning is not open space, and the Planning Commission had recommended open space, where Metro is requesting that you not move forward with open space at this time. And so that's the topic. And there's the sites that you had questions about, I believe, were the Mitchell Creek Natural Area, Selwood River Park, there was a Marine Drive parcel, and a Fano Creek parcel.
 So maybe just go through these one at a time, and maybe first Metro can. Yes, welcome. Good afternoon. Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm Gary Shepard from the Metro Attorney's Office. I have with me Dan Moeller, who is the director of our land management team, best way to put it. He's the boss of many. Okay.
 So this has been a very interesting process for us in the sense that we started with about 100 properties that were going to be zoned open space from their current commercial, residential, industrial sort of mix uses that we have. In coordination with staff, we've narrowed that down to about 21 properties that we still have concerns over, which is a pretty good effort. We're in the unique position of probably being the largest –
 landowner of property that you're looking to rezone from basically a use zone to a relatively passive use zone. So it certainly affects our asset holdings. And so we appreciate the opportunity of sort of slowing this down a bit and sort of examining these one by one. In general, though, our concerns that remain...
 have to do with maintaining flexibility as an owner to utilize our properties for the best purposes, the best results we can. Whether this may be working in conjunction with adjacent property owners to do adjustments to help them develop property where we can benefit from that through an exchange or we
 or whether it's preserving these assets and the value of those assets so we can use them in the future for what we don't know, but use them in the future for our land management and operation purposes. And a few of these that I know that you have specific questions on are really good examples of this concept that we want to preserve, that flexibility as an owner that we'd like to preserve. Okay.
 And so you want to start with one, Eric? Yeah, the Selwood Riverfront Park, I believe, was the first. This one's a pretty good example. I know that this is adjacent to one of your city parks in Selwood there. It's also adjacent to the Oaks Bottom Amusement Park there, Oaks Park. Correct, yeah.
 Oaks Park is zoned, I believe, R10 and currently is not proposed to be changed. I don't envision that being an amusement park forever. I envision that property probably being developed sometime in the next 50 years.
 Our property is uniquely situated south of that. Our property certainly has natural constraints development, but it also has about a third of it that's above the FEMA floodplain map. So we have a third of that property that is actually developable property at its current zone.
 we'd like to preserve that in its current form in the hopes that it may provide us some flexibility to work with the future development of the Oaks facility, whether that is conveying our developable rights for acquiring significant portions of their facilities.
 on the river. We view that as an asset that we don't want to reduce its potential. Certainly, if it's zoned open space, it takes that out of the equation. It reduces our ability to react to a situation and to create benefits for the city of Portland and for the region as a whole. So, okay, I hear the argument, but I'll try to say this gently. I think there are a lot of people in the community who would be concerned to hear it.
 So how did this property come to be owned by Metro? I would assume that this was probably, well, there's only two ways, either a 96 or 2006 bond measures. Yeah. Those were open space bond measures. For purchase of natural areas, how could you possibly develop them?
 There, for purpose of natural areas, this property certainly has natural areas. We're not talking about developing natural areas. We're talking about preserving property as best we can for the benefit of the region and for the habitat it represents, but also recognizing that it's a real estate asset. And property in the region are assets. Our real estate are assets. We understand all that, but this is going to sound a little paradoxical.
 patronizing and I don't mean it to be but you're talking to four previous or current parks commissioners and two people who passed a parks bond measure and somebody who was involved in the at least one of us was involved in the green spaces measures and I don't know how much public involvement you personally been involved in but I can safely predict that you would have a storm of public opposition like nothing you have ever seen
 if you ever propose to build anything on this parcel. So I'm not sure what you're availing yourself of by getting residential zoning on it. It's a forget-about-it scenario. It's not going to happen. What if the ability to preserve that parcel was able to preserve –
 You're being so rational, and people are not rational about these issues. Well, that's the way you think. I was involved in the 95 green spaces measure, getting it passed. And, in fact, a property near me was the first one ever purchased with the green spaces money. Mm-hmm.
 there are some developable areas of it, I would be chaining myself to a tree or other such things if that was to happen. So is your thought that you would sell the development rights and then they'd be able to put more stuff on an adjacent property? We'd be able to acquire more natural area on adjacent property. No. Is there a conservation easement on this property? No.
 Not that I understand. It's not zoned. It's zoned. It's probably e-zoned, right? Yeah, or Greenway. It's a little bit analogous to the historic discussion you had yesterday about the 15th and Belmont site where the property owner wasn't proposing to take the houses down, but they were asking for a higher density in order to retain that real estate value, which may help them expand that historic resource, if that's a loose analogy. Yeah, because, again, but you're talking about resource land here.
 I mean, in both the mind of the public and in its current physical condition. And just out of respect, though, wouldn't that be a decision that our council would make from its operations standpoint? Wouldn't they be interested in that decision? We're all implementing agencies of what the public did here, right? So the public purchased this land, put it into your hands.
 and then we have a zoning responsibility. It would almost be for us to zone it for development, which is how this would be. We're not asking for that. Anything other than open space could be described and construed as zoning it for development. If we were to do that, I think the council could rightly be accused of subverting what the voters did when they gave you the land in the first place.
 I don't think it's the province of this council. You are proposing to change the zone of the property from its current to an open space zone. And in that is taking a metro asset and –
 dictating its use in a manner that our council has not chosen yet. And that's all we're asking is to respect our process, to respect the process that we go to. And we produce quality products. We're not a – our land development division, which is –
 a property ownership element of metro not a regulatory element um we produce good products and uh can i jump in for a second sure and i'm going to say this very respectfully we spent an inordinate amount of time yesterday talking about things that were fairly modest in scope yeah we have a ton of very substantive stuff ahead and i feel like i have virtually no useful information to make this decision okay what do you need
 What I need is a memo from Metro explaining, answering questions that we will assemble. I need a chance to have a conversation, but we're going to spend an hour here picking this apart. Well, I don't know one way or another. I don't have enough information. I appreciate that. And we have a whole bunch of other things that have been. So you want to set this one aside again? Yes, well vetted. All right. Well, what information do you need?
 Well, you've been asking questions which I think are very probative, but I would need something in writing that explains why on each of these parcels they are asking for the relief, why they believe it's in the public interest, why it's not inconsistent with whatever the acquisition strategy, and just some roadmap for us to look at. But I think we could spend a lot of time debating this, and we have stuff that's actually queued up for decisions.
 The other thing that I'd be interested to know is which of these properties is managed by a city entity. Does Portland Parks manage this particular natural area? Does either BES or Clean Water Services manage the Fano Creek property? I'm also really intrigued by the marine drive parcels. Can we zone them industrial? Sure.
 And no, they're on the beach. I thought it was worth asking. I'm personally open to being persuaded on this, but I just think we're on a compound overload. And I just want another example, if you can pull up the Mitchell Creek Natural Area, because that was one of the questions you had. Okay.
 This property here is part of our larger holding in Mitchell Creek, which spans two jurisdictions, both the City of Portland and Clackamas County. The entirety of the Clackamas County holdings are zoned for residential use. We purchased those from potential land development situations and have preserved them. This Mitchell Creek area here down in the bottom part that we were requesting not be rezoned from its current residential zoning to an open space is immediately adjacent to City of Portland property.
 So you've chosen to not rezone your own property that's situated exactly like our property is, which fronts along an improved drive and represents an asset that you've made the decision in your team to preserve, and we'd like the same ability to preserve that asset. Now, we're not saying we're going to develop this property, and it certainly has areas that would be off limits from development.
 but the frontage on that road there is valuable. And it's not valuable as habitat. It's not valuable as a natural preserve. It's valuable for its development potential in the city of Portland. Now this may happen 10 years, 20 years, 30, 40 years from the line. But we would like this, again, the flexibility to preserve, the ability to adjust boundaries and create developable parcels that benefit our natural areas in a greater fashion, whether it's through an exchange to get more land up on the Butte where it's
 more of a natural area asset or whether it's for creating funding for our program. So this is just another example. Are you obligated to spend any proceeds you would get from selling such a property to go back into your open space program? No.
 That would be a very good question. I don't have that answer for you. I'll just add that to the list of questions. Other questions that you want them to respond to with a memorandum? I'd like a one-page explanation of the reason we should consider these changes with whatever the statement of the history and relevant information. Can I give you time to do that? Sure, I understand that. But in this particular instance, Mitchell Creek, someone made a decision from your staff to not rezone your own property, and that was done for – Which bureau owns it?
 City of Portland. It's listed as the owner. This one in the middle? Yeah, it's the one in the middle. Question for staff. All right, let's find out who owns that. But that's the same sort of concept. I have a question. Is this a policy that you've been directed by the Metro Council to testify before us today? I've been asked by everyone in charge to be here today.
 So this matter has been before Metro Council as far as the decision of coming here today. We were asked this morning at 9 o'clock to show up. We spoke with my director, our chief operating officer, and that's why we're here today. We appreciate you coming on short notice. No, I agree. But to the mayor's point, as a policy matter, is that now that community members need to weigh in before the Metro Council, saying that they would like it to be open space, as I said, I'd be shocked and horrified. I believe the Metro property near my –
 home is being rezone to open space. But that was the clear reason that we passed the bond measure and that we purchased these properties so that they would remain in open space. And just in closing, the ones that we have vetted through here and have determined are clearly correctly going to be zoned to open space are properties that have habitat value, wetlands value, have been master planned for open space parks uses, or are intended to be master planned for open space parks uses in the future.
 Some properties are acquired as assets. Some properties are acquired to stop development that otherwise would happen. Some properties are acquired as beneficial holdings to Metro. A lot of the properties along the Springwater Corridor were acquired just for trail purposes. They weren't acquired for open space purposes or parks purposes. They're currently zoned commercial and can support commercial or high-density residential development, which is also an objective of this city and our region –
 So that's all we're asking is some of these properties were purchased for specific purposes, and just to assume, which has happened to date, that they all should be open space is a big assumption, and it would affect our agency, from our opinion, in a negative manner, just to assume it across the board. We appreciate you coming on short notice and articulating that. I think as Commissioner Fish asked for it, it would be helpful if you just got us a brief description of each of these, the rationale for each of these, and then, again, we can continue.
 continue this item give you a little more time than we've had so far may i ask when you'd like that by let's see what's our schedule for yeah next set of amendments i would suggest you um talk with the city attorney about the schedule today was your last session so anything that goes beyond today affects the schedule so let's let's have a conversation about what's legal in terms of all
 All right. What can we do there, Catherine? Because we don't want to rush Metro, but we also want a little more detail. In discussing with Joe, it seems like it might be possible for you to continue this amendment to the date you're supposed to take a vote on the findings. The only tricky part is if adopting or not adopting one or more of these amendments would require some changes to the findings.
 That's going to make it a little bit complicated for staff. So a semi-translation of that is if we table this one item and take it back up on June 9th,
 It would be incumbent on staff to identify whether we think any of our findings hinge on that decision. Could we continue this to a time certain next Wednesday and take it up as the first matter in the afternoon before our afternoon session? Presumably there will be written something in writing that staff will review and either approve or not, and it comes to us for a ten-minute hearing? I like that suggestion. Can we do that too? The mayor has gone Wednesday afternoon at 2 p.m.
 oh that's right secretary of transportation's here well charlie um do you feel comfortable 210 now 210. what about um for the whole afternoon the mayor's got the whole afternoon stevie you've gone to from three to part of it yes is there a thursday council it's going two to four thirty
 On Thursday? Oh, that's the utility rate hearing. That's not going to be dramatic. Let's do that first. Let's do this first. Let's do that at 2 next Thursday. All right. And could you review, Mayor, could they be directed to put their memo into staff so we get also a staff recommendation when it comes to council? Please. And just to clarify, because the word hearing was mentioned, technically the hearings have ended in this is a work session. So you're just asking them questions. It's not a hearing? Yes. Okay.
 Alright, thank you. No, we appreciate that. I was thinking is a few days to get back to us and writing I appreciate it very much any other questions before they go because we did grab them over here fast. So thank you very much. Thank you Okay, let's move on to So that items continued until Thursday at 2 p.m. Next Thursday Number 56
 The Mount Hood Community College site right next to Maywood Park. So I move to adopt the amendment described in item six of my April 28th memorandum, which would change property at the southeast corner of Northeast 102nd and Prescott to mixed-use dispersed. Second. Okay. Everybody remember this one? There we go.
 I move you started talking about this. Yeah, I think everybody's clear about this. There's a PCC campus across the street, and this is the parcel that's in Portland. Sorry, Mount Hood Community College campus across the street, and this is the parcel in Portland. I move the motion. Okay. Anyone else have a question before we do? Okay, let's take a vote. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay.
 Okay. Number 57, a wedge of ODOT property. I move to adopt the amendment described in Item 7 of my April 28th memo. Second. We can change the wedge of ODOT property on North Fargo to mixed employment. And I move the motion.
 So there was a concern expressed by the Neighborhood Association about potential for a community garden or other community use there. And so I support this with the proviso that a future property owner would need to consult with the neighborhood and look at if there are beneficial uses. It's currently residentially zoned, and it's not going to be residential development yet.
 It is an ODOT-owned property, so we do have that ability to talk to ODOT in an ongoing way. So if we could just make a note of that. So make a note that we want to explore beneficial uses of the property in addition to its purpose for transportation or communication for things like murals, dog parks, community gardens, other potential public uses. Thank you. Any other questions before we vote?
 Roll call, please. Fish. Aye. Zaltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. And before you move into the policy items, I think it may be, just for continuity's sake, helpful if you shift and do the errata list related to map items before we jump into policies. What number is that? Number 73 on page 41, it should be, if you're using the updated map.
 Okay, so I'll move the list of cleanup items listed under number 73. Discussion? I'm going to second. So just to briefly list them, there's 2605 Northeast 7th is a situation where we had proposed some down zoning, but in the meantime a development has been proposed to fully utilize the existing, so we're going to change that. Okay.
 B-30 is an amendment that late breaking testimony identified an adjacent property that would logically be part of it. Twilger Plaza had a slight error in that one of the parcels actually is not in their ownership and was not a willing participant in the amendment, and so that's a suggested minor change there. There was an error in the –
 We already talked about with S-22, adding one property on Cora Street. Mr. Klotz had identified in late breaking testimony on your amendment M-55, which took the urban center designation further up division, that there were a couple parcels split
 And he's asking that you square those off to include the whole parcels. And they're actually already currently under development, so it's kind of consistent with what's being built there already.
 You already addressed the bridge. We did M70. You did M70 yesterday, and then there were a few refinements of northeast Fremont, notably that the building with Jim and Patty's was developed with mixed use, but for some reason it had a mixed employment designation, and so we were suggesting that you change that back to mixed use. By all means. Okay. And it doesn't matter that we're doing M70 twice, so we don't have to take it out. You can just cross that one out if you want. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Okay.
 or a second to that yes yes hi hi no big hi great hi hi okay back to the policy items let's see so can we do this all together the second development so um there's the motion there um i move to adopt policy amendments p15 and p70 second
 i know they have five sponsors mayor so i moved the i moved the motion i think as long as everybody's actually happy with the language i think we're there yes yeah and just for the public this is about community benefits and and the council's desire to describe the values that we want to achieve rather than specifically stating what that might look like now or in the future all right let's take a vote please
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ricks? Aye. Hales? Aye. All right, can you put them up on the screen for folks, something other than that? Okay. Middle housing. I move to adopt policy amendment P45 as further refined in my April 28th memorandum. And I'd like to offer a further refinement to your further refinement, Mayor. Okay. Okay.
 You changed the last sentence. Switched the words where appropriate to the beginning. I would like to add, so now your version is where appropriate, apply zoning that would allow this within a quarter mile of designated centers and within the inner ring around the central city. I would like to add after designated centers, corridors with frequent service transit, comma, high capacity transit stations and within the inner ring around the central city.
 Okay. Commissioner Saltzman seconds those further amendments. You're saying that words where appropriate would go at the beginning of the sentence and then all that would be added in down below. Right. So the full sentence would be where appropriate applies zoning to allow this within a quarter-mile designated centers, corridors with frequent service transit, high-capacity transit stations, and within the inner ring around the central city.
 So we heard a lot of testimony that folks were not comfortable with what this even meant. I myself am not comfortable with even the term middle housing. And we assured folks that there would be a further discussion
 a process to decide where this goes, what it means, and such. So I'm not sure why we're even specifying. Where appropriate means where appropriate, and I would prefer to just delete the last sentence saying specifically, and even more so now that we're specifying more and more things, why don't we just look at where is it appropriate and direct the Bureau to go back and come back to us with a package?
 And I have full neighborhood engagement on is it a quarter mile, is it a half mile, is it dispersed, is it here, there, or everywhere? And I strongly disagree. I would like us to explore the appropriateness of this policy within those contexts. So I think it's important to indicate where we're going to be looking for appropriateness. We haven't necessarily had the public discussion on that since it wasn't.
 Well, let me stir a couple more things into the mixture. One, the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and Mr. Smith is here, has started discussing this subject extensively already. And also it's going to get, in effect, meshed with what we're doing in the residential infill project and the mixed-use zoning project.
 So it seems to me that implementation consists of getting all that right, including applying it to the zoning map. So I'm actually comfortable with Commissioner Novick's language because those other screens are going to determine how this actually works out in practice.
 And if you have, suppose you have a big old house that's not particularly close to transit, would that mean it would not be eligible for internal conversion?
 It doesn't fit within – It could be if the residential info project says, here's how you do that. What policy would direct that to happen? If this is the policy that directs us to look at the zoning codes for these innovative types of – Maybe our historic preservation policies might. Yeah, the policies on balance would be looked at. Having guidance in the policy about where helps you –
 know sort of where to start looking, as I think Commissioner Novick was saying. It doesn't entirely preclude you from adopting it elsewhere if there's other policy bases for doing that. So give us your reaction to Commissioner Novick's comments.
 suggestion and his proposed amendment to the amendment. The original drafting of the language included the geographic designation to be able to make sure that people were aware of this applying to specific places, to raise awareness of this actually could result in a change on the ground and change in the map. But the exact boundaries of that were always going to be open to further analysis and a full-blown legislative process.
 Since drafting this, we've been embroiled in the residential infill project and learned a lot about this debate about where this kind of middle housing should be considered throughout the city.
 And the more inclusive boundary, the boundary that is in the current proposal and in the amendment both relate back to the comprehensive plan. So you're staying consistent with sort of the message of focusing on centers and corridors, but also this policy need to increase the options in single-family neighborhoods.
 but in a way that's consistent with the overall strategy of the plan by going with either what's in here now or what Commissioner Novick is recommending. Both of those work for that purposes. I guess consistency with the kind where we think we want more density would be greater if we were more inclusive because the high capacity of the frequent transit corridors are also places just like the centers where we would want to try to do this.
 And what we're trying to do here is explore it.
 And without a geography, we were worried that the public might not clue into it as much. And even that question that Commissioner Fritz just raised would not have been so sharply focused, that if you're in the area or not in the area, can you get middle housing on a particular property? This helps, I think, elevate it, gives us plenty of policy basis to consider it across the whole city, but specifically recognizes that this is a tool you want to use
 adopting conformance with the comp plan. Okay. So are you ready to vote on Commissioner Novick's proposed amendment? Could you read it again, please, Commissioner Novick? The whole thing? Yes. Just the last sentence? No, the whole thing. The whole thing. Okay.
 Starts out, enable and encourage development in middle housing. This includes multi-unit or clustered residential buildings that provide relatively smaller, less expensive units, more units, and a scale transition between the core of the mixed-use center and surrounding single-family areas. Then sentence. Where appropriate, apply zoning that would allow this within a quarter mile of designated centers, corridors with frequent service transit, high-capacity transit stations, and within the inner ring around the central city. Okay. Okay.
 So let's take a vote on that motion, please. Who seconded that? I think Dan did, yes. Actually, I'd like to pose one question to staff beforehand.
 I know that there's some folks in East Portland who are concerned about increasing density of any kind where there's not sufficient infrastructure to support it. And I just want to state my understanding, and that's with your understanding, that including the phrase as appropriate means, among other things, we'll have an opportunity to discuss whether or not Council believes middle housing is appropriate in parts of East Portland that right now have severe infrastructure issues.
 Correct. Consistent with the comprehensive plan, we looked at that as a constraint and affected our development densities out there. We would do the same for this study. Okay. All right. Roll call, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick.
 I really appreciate colleagues' support on this. As you know, I've been very interested in the concept of middle housing. I want to make sure that the city offers more diverse housing options than one-bedroom apartments and million-dollar single-family homes, given that right now we look at our Vancouver trajectory where all the single-family homes are.
 will be a million dollars. I think that middle-scale housing like duplexes, triplexes, flats, townhouses, courtyard apartments have the potential to work for lots of Portlanders as they worked for many Portlanders in the past when this kind of housing was more widely allowed. So thank you very much, and thanks to staff very much for working with us on this issue and the community members who weighed in. Prince, hi. Hi.
 Hi. Done right. This will be helpful. So that's the amendment to it. Yes. Now we're going to vote on the amended P45. Yes. So roll call, please. We've adopted the amendment. Now on the policy overall. I just want to make a brief statement because this has turned out to be surprisingly contentious, and we've heard passionate voices on both sides. Housing advocates have weighed in and see it as a tool for
 creating different affordable housing options. Many neighborhoods fear that it means demolishing houses and replacing them with row houses and changing the character of their neighborhoods. The truth is we're in a housing crisis, and we need more places for people to live and for those places to remain affordable. Without conscious design and forethought, we are at risk of creating deeper geographic divisions than we already have.
 Younger people, people of color, blue-collar workers, older adults, families with children, and people of modest means should not be essentially barred in or out of any neighborhood. Middle housing is an opportunity to maintain and increase all kinds of diversity in our neighborhoods, to create affordable homes in neighborhoods where people want to live and where older adults want to age in place. I think this is a solid tool to help us create the kind of Portland of tomorrow that we all want to see, and I'm pleased to vote aye.
 I thoroughly agree with commissioner fish that I see this as a way to help address the naughty issue of housing affordability. And I need one more thing to say, but forget what it was. Hi. Hi. Okay. Home parks. Um,
 I move to adopt Policy Amendment P48 and direct staff to explore unique zoning designations to better protect mobile home parks from conversion to other land uses. Second. Okay. So this language is pretty good. I move the motion. Everybody ready to move on this, everybody? Okay. Roll call, please. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz, thank you for bringing this forward. And the truth is that throughout our community and in places like Hayden Island, mobile home parks are some of the last affordable housing in our community. And there are tremendous opportunities for us to not only preserve this property,
 unique housing stock, but also to help the existing tenants gain some kind of ownership in the mobile home park and to bring some of our other values to play, like green buildings, so that we replace aging, quasi-uninhabitable structures with long-term green and sustainable structures. The truth is, however, that we will not be successful without the city and the county prioritizing this issue. And in this current market, we are losing the
 crucial resources on a daily basis. So I think there's a sense of urgency. I would go so far as to say that I think that the city and the county together should come up with a policy that prioritizes the preservation of this unique resource, and if necessary, seek the assistance of the state if there are any legal impediments, if there are any
 currently any holes in our toolkit that can be addressed through changes in state law. But I strongly support this particular policy, and I thank my friend for bringing it forward. Aye. Councilman? Well, this is exactly the type of discussion we're involved with right now, the Housing Bureau with the Oak Leaf Mobile Home Village on Northeast Killingsworth and 45th.
 And precisely because the legislature is now allowing us to impose a construction excise tax, these are the types of investments that we hope to be able to preserve and to rehabilitate to make them good, solid, affordable housing. So I appreciate your language, Commissioner Fritz. Hi. Elvick.
 Thank you, Mr. Fritz. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, colleagues. In noticing that the Hayden Island Manufactured Home Park supported this, I realized there is an error in the language. And it is, we've said it's mobile home parks, and the preferred term is manufactured home parks, because as we all know, most of these homes are not very mobile.
 So I wonder, at the last moment, can we change it to manufactured home parks? We were trying to be consistent with the zoning code definitions in this case, which still says mobile home parks, but you could change it. We would just force some zoning code changes, I believe. So maybe when we redo the zoning code, we can change the word everywhere. Okay.
 Well, for us to implement this is to bring forward eventually changes and additions to the zoning code so we could correct that particular wording at the time. But the message of the policy is clear, I think. In the zoning code, those terms are both defined, so we would have to sort that out. But I want to be very clear. There is a difference between a mobile home and a manufactured home in the marketplace. Okay.
 and so i want to make sure that any definition captures both even in hayden island there is a place for vehicles that are strictly mobile homes that are are attached to rigs have wheels and there are manufactured homes that are for all intensive purposes permanent and we need to make sure we capture both right so we'll leave it as it is for now but i just wanted to flag that because looking forward 20 years maybe in 20 years we won't be talking
 about mobile homes will be recognizing them as low-cost, affordable home ownership opportunities. So thank you with that in mind. And again, thank you to the Hayden Island Manufactured Home Parks, Pam Ferguson, and others who have
 I may be the only candidate who has canvassed in a mobile home park or a manufactured home community several times and very much appreciate the kinds of community that they can foster and especially the affordable home opportunities. And thank you, Commissioner Soltzman. I'm really interested in the Oak Leaf in particular and hoping that maybe some of the housing investment fund or others can be used as an exciting possibility there. Aye. Aye. Inclusionary zoning.
 I move adding an additional sentence to Policy 5.34 as described in my memo of April 11th. Second. But actually, aren't we subtracting a sentence? No, because there are additional regulatory barriers that we still need to remove. Oh, okay. Yes, all right. It's not all done, right? Not all done. All right. Any questions? Roll call.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Housing Continuum Policy. I move to adopt Policy Amendment P49. Is there a second? Second.
 Questions? I have a question. And this is to the Housing Commissioner. We put a lot of work into creating a plan for the city and a strategic plan for the Bureau. Where do rest areas currently stand in terms of the housing continuum that the Bureau has identified as part of its strategy? They're not part of the continuum as currently identified by the Housing Bureau. How do you find a difference between transitional campground and rest area?
 How do you define a transitional campground? I'm reluctant to sort of get in between the two if you want to have the discussion here, but rest areas are not something I want to see Housing Bureau dollars supporting. Okay.
 Well, my concern goes beyond whether we support them or not. I don't think we have an existing policy that identifies them as part of the housing continuum, so I'm reluctant to put that into the comp plan without us having a public process and, in a sense, modifying our existing plan for what is the housing continuum. Well, this is including but not limited to. And under that theory, Mayor, you could add 100 things that aren't part of our plan
 This is the comprehensive plan. We're embedding it into the law. If it isn't part of any plan that the community has adopted, I think it's potentially inappropriate for us to put it into the comp plan. So what about transitional campgrounds, Commissioner Fish? Well, I'm not the housing commissioner. That's why I asked Dan whether rest areas are part of the strategy. Okay.
 I appreciate, Commissioner Fritz, that – I mean, the other changes to this I support. Rest areas are currently not part of our official policy of how we address homelessness. And to put it in the comp plan as an amendment, I don't think it's appropriate. I think it bypasses a whole process for developing a comprehensive plan for what is the housing continuum, where we're going to put our resources. And I don't think we should decide that question through an amendment to the comp plan, especially when there's been no public process. Thank you.
 So you're objecting to the inclusion of transitional campgrounds as well? Is that your original language? That was – all I added was adding rest areas. I didn't add the transitional campground. I just wanted to reframe it because it sounds like it's – I think – and I'm not – again, I'm a little rusty, but I think transitional campground may cover Dignity Village staff. Okay.
 At different stages of dignity villages development, potentially. We've tried to be as flexible as possible because we saw it as a one-off experiment. This policy was developed in conjunction with sort of the housing strategy. And remember, also, it covers sort of the land use side of things, which means that it's not only about what's the city spending money on, but how does land use allow and acknowledge this continuum. So there may be things that are –
 Not the focus of the city's money, but are still part of the larger continuum in the land use sense. And so that's a – Well, I think – and again, I'm not – we haven't had a broad discussion about this. I'm assuming that transitional campgrounds may include something like Dignity Village. I think the addition of rent assistance is –
 is positive because that, in fact, short-term rent assistance is a cornerstone of our policy. It may or may not apply here, but it is part of our existing policy. Rest areas are not. I welcome the discussion. I think we should have a discussion about whether that is an appropriate part of the housing continuum and what weight we put on it and how we invest in it. I don't think that should be decided through an amendment to the comp plan. So what's the effect of having this policy in the plans?
 From a land use side, it is a policy that may be relevant to...
 where we allow shelters and campgrounds within zoning ordinances, which is something that we're currently looking at. It may affect what kind of housing we allow in different zones. So I understand your concern, Commissioner Fish, about what the city's program is, but what the zoning allows in, say, a church parking lot is,
 might be something that we do want to address in the comp plan and the zoning map. That's already allowed. We took care of that under Mayor Adams. So we don't want the comp plan language to support that? No, we allow car camping in church parking lots, but that was a very – Is that a change to the zoning code?
 It's adopted by resolution. Right, it's not in the zoning code. Right, because it was deliberately tailored to a very limited circumstance. So if we're going to adopt a zoning code and zoning map, where things are allowed is exactly what a zoning code and zoning map does. It says this is where you can build a motel, this is where you can build an apartment building, and this is where you can have a rest area. The policy question of what the city is prioritizing and doing in its housing support continuum
 is important, but not the same question as what's allowed where. I'm interested in – I'm supporting this amendment because I think we want to have the staff try to figure out what should be allowed where. No, I appreciate that, and it is another example of doing housing policy outside of the traditional mechanisms by which we make policy.
 You are backdooring this by doing it through the comprehensive plan without a discussion as to whether this should be part of the housing continuum. It is not currently part of that policy. And I understand you may want to do that. And in an emergency, we may want to cut every corner conceivably. It's not currently part of the housing continuum. I don't think that's what we're talking about here. Okay. Have we aired this one? Let's take a vote. No. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I'll defer to the housing commissioner on this one. Aye. Okay.
 Chris. Hi. Niels. Hi. Okay, done. Open data. I wondered why Chris Smith was here. These are packaged together. One is policy in Chapter 2, which is the broader community involvement policy. The second one is a policy in Chapter 8, which is about the public facilities relationship to data and resources.
 And then 85 is part of that Chapter 8 as well, which deals with how we treat broadband in a public facilities right-of-way sense. So I'll move Motion A so we can discuss and take a vote on that. I move to adopt Policy Amendments P11, P68, and P85. Second. I understand that the effect of this adoption is to –
 strengthen the language back to what the PSC had in mind no I've got it backwards you got it backwards all right thank you that's why I asked that question so if we adopt this amendment we we we we take the city attorney's advice and have a plan that refers less to open data
 Now do I have it right? Yes. Yes, it is based on the city attorney's advice, and it sets the broad policy rather than getting down to all of the specifics. Okay.
 So it's in keeping with the rest of the comprehensive plan that we set the framework, and we leave it to other mechanisms to say exactly what does that mean. Okay. All right. And I always appreciate the city attorney's advice, but I don't always take it. So having made the motion, I don't plan to vote for it. All right. Are we ready to vote? Now that I got straight in my mind which one is which, so thank you for that. So do you not support the staff recommendations either? No.
 I support the motion B, I think. So let's take a vote on A and then maybe try again on B. Yeah. You've now lost me, so can someone just walk me through that again? This is for all three of them, Commissioner, including this is for all three of the policy changes, the two recommended by staff and the one that I worked with the city attorney on to make it a more broad policy on open data. Right. Okay.
 So which one are we voting on first? All three of them together to see if there's support for all three. And if we could take a moment, we'll clarify. We've got some stacked different results from these motions. All right. There's sort of three things that could come out of this discussion. The first variation is the –
 responding to the city attorney's concern about the language and as the Commissioner Fritz noted, being more general in the language and more concise. The second variation is to sort of
 remove them altogether from the comp plan. But motion A, just to be clear, keeps them as revised by the city attorney. Right. And then motion B would remove them altogether just as topics that you don't think should be in there. Now I got it. Failure of either would revert to the planning and sustainability conditions. Okay. There we go. I guess I could characterize as a stronger statement that –
 open data and broadband are related to land use. There's an option C, but it doesn't require passing a motion. Correct. Option C is just failure of both motions, essentially. Thank you. So we're doing motion A first? Motion A first. Are we ready to vote on that? Okay, roll call on motion A. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. No. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Ailes. No. Okay, it passes, right? Yeah, all three. All right, so we're done with that. So we're done with that.
 Okay, drive-throughs. I'm moved to adopt Policy Amendment P32 as further amended. Second to that? Second. Okay. I have a couple of questions for staff, if I could. I'm playing a little catch-up on this one. This issue has generated also a lot of heat in our process. But I understand the concerns raised originally. This amendment would appear to make it even more restrictive,
 not less restrictive. And my understanding was we were having a conversation with some of the folks in the community about some middle ground. So what's the practical effect of this amendment? Well, to start off, it's a high-level policy. So the details in this case are really down in the zoning code about where exactly we allow drive-throughs and where we don't. So most of this debate is going to happen through the mixed-use zoning update that's still at the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 But, of course, what you say in the policy gives a little bit of broad direction, so that's why the fight is essentially happening at two levels right now. It might be helpful if Joe passes out a map we brought. The current zoning code prohibits drive-throughs in many locations and limits them in a number of locations. So the policy may essentially sort of –
 the proposed – so there's two maps. The first map, number one, is an estimate of based on the current zoning where drive-throughs are either allowed, limited, or prohibited. And the red is prohibited, the green is allowed, and the orange is limited. The gray, which is the central city and the Gateway Plan District, are also –
 in the prohibited category currently in the zoning code. What that means is you can't build new drive-thrus on properties that don't have them, but there are grandfathering rights for properties that already have drive-thrus. Very important given the PR campaign that was mounted against this proposal, which made it appear that we would be closing existing drive-thrus. That is not the case, period. Okay.
 Right. So the second map shows what's coming out of the mixed-use project at the zoning code level right now, and that's a snapshot of what the draft code says right now. It's not
 It's not necessarily the end result because that's still at the Planning Commission, but what it shows is that it changes the geographies of those because of the way the rezoning occurred. And once again, there's three categories. You can see on that second map that there's more territory in the prohibit but liberalize the rebuild allowances, and what that means is that
 We've expanded the territory where they're prohibited in that zoning update, but we've loosened the allowances for rebuilding within that territory if you already have one. So under the old scheme, you sometimes had to literally keep the existing drive-through and kind of build around it. And the new scheme is that if you have rights to one on the site, you can maintain those rights and completely tear it down and reconfigure.
 while still maintaining that right. And that gives better options for modernizing the site without losing the right. That's coming through the mixed use. That's still draft at the mixed use. So this isn't truth yet. This is just where we are in the process. So given that the comp plan is supposed to drive the zoning code, what does the comp plan language need to say in order to honor what's coming through that process? Right. So I think the language of the mayor's amendment is –
 roughly consistent with where we currently are with the mixed-use code. If your interest is us loosening those rules further, then you'd want to amend this language in one direction. If you want us to strengthen them in the other direction, you'd want to amend it in a different direction. This is a compromise on the issue, but it's also acknowledging where the PSC is believing they should head in the mixed-use code.
 Eric, why looking at the two maps, and it's a little hard to compare them. I'm not criticizing you. Thank you for blowing them up so I can read them, but it's a little hard to compare them. But it does look like the further east you go, there are fewer allowed drive-throughs.
 Why is that? The remapping is driven by the centers and corridors approach in the comp plan where we're trying to apply a more urban zoning designation within the newly designated centers. And so what that's doing is some of those properties at those core center intersections, an example is like 122nd and Division where we have a vision for a complex.
 new center there, that those zones are being changed to something more akin to an urban mixed-use zone instead of being general commercial, which is more of an auto-oriented zone?
 And so that zoning shift is what's creating those changes in East Portland by designating centers that we expect to be more urban over time. The secondary effect is the drive-through map changes. And it is difficult to read the color differences, but both the orange and the yellow and the green, all three of those –
 in some level, allow drive-throughs even under the new zoning. So under this proposed zones map, the only places where it's prohibited are red, and those tend to be these either emerging or existing centers. Yeah, I think this map's very helpful. Another thing that would be helpful is, Camille, could you open those two shades over there?
 So, Joe, let's take an example of Fred Meyer. So here's one, by the way, before we get to Fred Meyer. Here's one that no one looks at. Oh, that one. Entire block face.
 The entire block face of that building over there is a drive-thru. What's behind curtain number two? It's a really ugly drive-thru. So one of the inspirations for making it absolutely clear that we shouldn't have drive-thrus in the central city is none of us even remembers that that block face is there because we never go there.
 The entire block face of that building is a drive-through, and in fact that building's only relationship with the street is a drive-through, and that's why that building was one of the inspirations for our design review code. So that's part of my inspiration here. These don't belong in Central City. But I think they've gotten to a much more sophisticated place with what they're doing in the mixed use. Commissioner Novick chose his office precisely so we could have the view of that building. Yeah, right. Can we go to Fred Meyer for a second? I want to make sure that –
 So in my neighborhood, the Fred Meyer has created a quasi-drive-through facility in the parking lot where you can order ahead groceries, come through a lane, and the groceries are delivered to your car. How is that impacted by what's before us? We're currently discussing some of those. There's also parking.
 Each grocery store is doing it a little differently. Some of them have you park in a spot and push a little button. Others actually have a drive aisle. That's a new innovation that our current code doesn't respond well to. Currently, I believe BDS does not consider that a drive-through, and we're trying to figure out what the right code solution to that is. The preliminary inclination is if it doesn't
 and doesn't have a window that maybe it isn't a drive-through, because we don't want to necessarily discourage the pickup kind of approach. Well, in a sense, what they've done is they've taken some existing parking offline and created priority parking for people that are temporarily parked to get groceries. It's just short-term parking with a preorder, essentially. In my experience, the typical person in line is a hairy parent with children or an older adult. So it is not our intent, therefore, to change that. Is that correct? Yes.
 Those details are going to work out in the mixed use, the details of the code, but it's not our broad intent. And when you think about the case we've been making about the drive-throughs, that is a facility sort of embedded in a big parking lot. So all the curb cuts and entrances in and out are not changing. It's just circulation within the parking lot. But your classic drive-through is –
 to curb cuts and unexpected sort of traffic in a pedestrian zone more. And that's clearly a Fred Meyers parking lot, as much as we'd like them to be well designed as not a pedestrian zone. What about a Dutch Brothers that will locate, or another sort of enterprise like that that would locate in an existing parking lot?
 Would that be allowed? The Dutch Brothers typically would be considered a drive-thru in the sense that they arrange a drive-up and there's a window. Right, but if they're using an existing underutilized parking lot that already has the curb cuts, is that still possible? No, it may be a matter of volume, Commissioner, but a significant portion of drive-thru coffee operations sales are taken place by the vehicles driving through. And if Fred Myers or a bigger...
 grocery store that can have curbside delivery. It's a parking lot where you're providing this extra sort of amenity of getting groceries to your car. Does that make sense? You have to interact. I think of many Dutch brothers. They're in the middle of a big parking lot too. And not just Dutch brothers, but those little micro...
 They've reused the express bars. They're located in an existing parking lot, typically of a retail. My guess is that some percentage of those are using legal grandfathering rights and some probably just were built without benefit of a permit. So what's the intent under this amendment? Those would not be allowed in the central city? No, those are clearly drive-thrus. Those are clearly drive-thrus, yes. So they would not be allowed in the central city. And the...
 which is consistent. It's more aggressive but consistent with our policy for a long time in the central city. Just one other hypothetical so I get it. So take the Burgerville that's in the convention center district, and it's one of the few drive-thrus that I go to because of my kids. So if we have this new policy in place, then what do they have to do in the future?
 They would continue to be a non-conforming development, but they would have, depending on how we write the details of the Central City Code, they would have grandfathering rights, so they...
 They recently, I think, redeveloped that building, so it's relatively modern, and I think they went through designer view and all that. So if that happened again, they would continue to have rights to hold that drive-through, but it would be – if it lapsed for a period of years, then they would have to go away. This is a technical question, and I think I know the answer. I just want to make sure. So if –
 I don't want to get too much in the weeds, but my understanding in some of those fast food restaurants is by contract they're required to update their facilities on some basis. So let's say every 10 years you have to update it and it has to have a new look. Does that trigger something that then puts at risk the drive-thru?
 In the central city, there's the added layer of design review, which complicates that question. But in general, the two flavors that we talked about are
 That's part of the discussion. The traditional grandfathering complicates that because you have to keep the drive-through in the same place, and oftentimes you see people kind of building around and modifying their site. With the expanded, more liberal grandfathering in the orange part of the map, we would be saying as long as you have one, you can rearrange the site and upgrade without that problem. Mayor, since I know you care very deeply about this issue, do you think,
 The question I'm getting at is I want to make sure that if someone is grandfathered and they're playing by the rules, they're not discouraged from updating their facility, which we would otherwise hope they would do. And that same conversation with some of the property owners involved. And, you know, the Burgerville people are the good guys, generally, in my view, generally. So are you comfortable with your approach that we're not –
 we're not unduly burdening their ability to to both i am again we're trying to move generally away from drive-throughs and not create new ones but but actually i think this rebuild allowance is actually in some instances giving people a little clearer path to continuing their lease and continue you know upgrading their building than we have today
 So it's not liberalizing the drive-through policy overall. The overall direction is it's going to be harder to have drive-throughs everywhere. You can have the drive-through every time you upgrade the facility overall.
 fast food restaurant has to become more in compliance, but it's just a steady progress for it. It never gets to the point where you couldn't have it. That's a clarifying point. You can't make it more out of compliance. So if you had one drive lane now, you can't add a second. And this is a technical area, but I just want to make sure if I support this that, again, let's use Burgerville because it's, I think, better to use a concrete example. And they do have a drive-through next to the convention center that –
 if they're grandfathered and they otherwise comply with everything else, if at some point they choose to update their facility to modernize it and make it more attractive to the public, it doesn't put at risk their drive-through. No, not directly. I mean, indirectly, they have to navigate design review and come up with a design that will pass muster. But the
 It doesn't make their facility go away. Right. It stays a nonconforming use that they have the right to have. So the real criticism you could hear from an operator in that circumstance is it just creates a different level of cost and uncertainty? Yes.
 Typically what we hear is that it adds to uncertainty or brain damage is often how it's described. And then sometimes it can make it difficult to finance upgrades. But for a franchisee like that, that's probably self-financed anyway. And one last question. In the revision that's before us, the language in reduced conflicts between automobiles and pedestrians and bicyclists is redacted. And the purpose of that?
 i think we summed it up with the pedestrian environment right yeah there's other policies that deal with that so we figured that maybe we were it was redundant with other policies in the plan have we ever
 Did you get any feedback on this from the Portland Commission on Disabilities? We did. We're in process of doing that. The Built Environment Subcommittee of the Disability Commission met a few days ago, and we brought this item to them, and they grappled with it. They didn't come to a conclusion. I think some of them were a little split on it, too. They are meeting this Friday again to further discuss it.
 We communicated to them that your discussion of this policy was, of course, happening right now, and they may not have enough time to fully weigh in at that level, but we were encouraging their feedback in the code development that's through the mixed-use project where the details of this will play out. So the subcommittee on the built environment kind of had different opinions, I guess is what you're saying.
 They weren't ready to commit to an opinion yet. Not ready to make a recommendation. I mean, there were opinions within the members of the committee. Yeah, right. That's what I meant. Not as a committee. Okay. I think this, I mean, again, I think this is a –
 I would go farther. I think this is a step in the right direction. You had PBOT staff here quoting Fred Kent yesterday that if you design for the automobile, you get a city designed for the automobile, and if you design for the pedestrian, you get a city designed for the pedestrian. I agree. And we'll get there someday. This gets there a little more in
 some places and stays and continues our policy by the central city I think if you look at this map I think the big changes are places like 82nd and Foster and sandy of the very streets that we want to make less suburban and more urban
 So I think this goes in the right direction. It's still possible on some parcels, but I think where the Planning and Sustainability Commission is going is a good balance, and this language tries to support that rather than going, again, as far as I would go, left to my own devices. And this language deletes the and corridors, correct? Yes.
 Correct. Correct. I think the concern was that maybe the hand corridors just covered the entire city, so that from the retail task force and the industry perspective, that was the more aggressive phrase. So we had testimony about the east side, central east side that's in the central city, right? Yeah.
 Like the Lloyd District is Central City? Yeah, the Lloyd and the Burgerville example cited by Commissioner Frisch is part of the Central City. Right. And so there is the question of do we consider certainly downtown. We don't have any. We don't want any. Prohibit is good. We want that one to go away. Someday. Okay.
 As somebody who used to have three children under four, I found drive-through facilities quite handy in the days when I was having to get fast food to get from A to B in short order. So I think there is a place that we can't always be pedestrian-oriented. And I actually am interested in the very also-centered... It used to be a car wash. It has now been changed into a black car cafe in the West Portland Town Center.
 I see more use from the walk-up window than I do from people driving through it, maybe just the time of day. So I like the language that says to support a pedestrian-oriented environment, that maybe when we're getting these new facilities, there will be the walk-up window. The other thing to bear in mind is if you don't have a drive-through, you may have to have more parking. If it is a facility where you're not dining out in style, for instance, at Burger King,
 that you're just picking up your food. If you can't have a drive-thru, then you're going to have to park, and that's going to require...
 more spaces. Well, the other effect of this, and we're spending maybe too much time on this because I think we might be ready to go, but the other effect of this is about intensity of development. And you mentioned the Burgerville, and that Burgerville should be allowed to continue. Obviously, we're not trying to make them close their drive-thru, and if their lease comes up in 10 years, they ought to get to renovate the building and keep it. But you look how underutilized that piece of land is versus the parcel next door with a six-story apartment building on it, and you realize, as I think...
 is true, that we can't afford to have one-story development with a drive-through in the central city very many places. Well, I'll make a bet that in 10 or 20 years, Burgerville is going to be a property development company, not a fast food company. Yeah, exactly. The genius is they acquired very attractive lots in a place like this. And most of what we're doing is going to make their property more valuable, and the pressures of development are going to...
 Yep. Yep. In some cases, we're making... May I move the motion? Okay, let's take a vote. Let's see how we're doing. I appreciate this discussion because I was, frankly, torn on this one, but based on what I've heard from staff about our intention, particularly the grandfathering, and
 and the conversation with the mayor, I'm more comfortable with this approach. My only – and what didn't mean to insult anyone about the maps. It's just that with my eyesight, those two maps are indistinguishable. So I just – No, we've had that conversation. And it's helpful. And I could at least tell that there was less green as I went east. So that was helpful to me to kind of get a trend line at least. You have a smaller city. I appreciate it. Holtzman? Aye. Novick?
 I've gone back and forth on this. Intuitively, I'm all for restricting drive-thrus. My only concern is that we haven't heard... I mean, the Portland Commission on Disabilities does not have an answer for us yet, and it seems like the academic research on the value or negative value of drive-thrus for seniors and people with disabilities is rather limited or nonexistent. So I was... I'm inclined...
 I came in this morning actually planning to vote no, saying that I think that we can address the issues and the specific zone changes, and we don't need to adopt a policy. In the meantime, we can have more communication with seniors and people with disabilities and see if there's more academic research. I am...
 reassured by the conversation and it seems to me that if we prohibit drive-through facilities in central city and limit them in centers and corridors we can have a conversation with folks like seniors and folks with mobility disabilities about when how much limiting is appropriate
 Uh, so in light of that, I will, after changing my mind twice in the course of the past 20 minutes, vote aye. It's always allowed. I appreciate this, this discussion too. And I remember back to the St. John's Lombard plan when Commissioner Hales was pushing this before and I was on the planning commission exactly at the stage that we consumed more than our lifetime supply of McDonald's, I think in our family to make sure that we could, um,
 get to meetings. And indeed, the sky hasn't fallen in St. John's, and I think it has helped create a more pedestrian-oriented environment there, so I support it.
 Niels? Walking around downtown Oslo past the Burger King and the McDonald's with no drive-thrus in the entire city. I knew that this was at least a step in the right direction towards being the best European city in America. Aye. Mayor, I have to ask, what do they call a quarter pounder with cheese in Oslo? I have no idea, but I can't pronounce it. We'll take a number six, please. That's right, a number six. Okay. Okay.
 Now, P23, I move to adopt policy amendment P23. Second. Eastern Neighborhood Site Development. So this is the land aggregation requirement. Could you discuss this a little bit and why we're requiring rather than encouraging here? My thought behind this was that if we don't require it and it's hard to do, it probably won't happen.
 That's my layperson's explanation. I'll let our planners do a better job. Let me just ask you for clarification. If the land is in different ownerships, we're going to say, no, you can't develop until your neighbor wants to sell, or are we talking about lots that are in the same ownership? We're talking about lots that may be in different ownerships, but whether or not you get to do a subdivision until it makes sense. Yeah, the code details would have to be worked out about whether there were exceptions for isolated sites, but –
 Concept is if you don't have enough properties lined up that are going at once, you would have to wait.
 And what – so we would have to – we would specify what is a large enough site? Right. All of that has to be specified. So then you would get – you have to be able to develop something. You'd be able to have a single-family home on that land? Yeah, you'd always get the single-family home option because that's not a – but to increase density in a single-family zone, you have to go through a land division. There may be also a possibility of having an out through the planned development option, but –
 But you would get the rights to build if, for example, if it was a vacant site, you could always build a house or rebuild your house. You know, and the issues we're looking at in the multifamily code update project that we're going to be – we're just now starting in East Portland are these kind of issues where their access to them and their location on the site could absolutely be more integrated into the street and sidewalk network. Right.
 but the rules that we have now don't lend themselves to being able to accomplish that. Part of it is that we let the sites move forward, even with multifamily development, in these very small parcels. The Streetmaster plan pushes you towards getting the bones in place and still opening up what will be better multifamily development sites. The typical poster child is a 60 by 300 lot where we want to get a street through, but if we ask for a street, we'd take the whole site and move.
 Just can't get it so that Other questions about this one ready to vote on this one. Okay, let's do Thank you for the explanation I Were rolling along here
 parking. Let's see, are these consolidated? Yes. I move to adopt policy amendments P73 and P99 as further refined in Commissioner Fritz's memo dated April 13th. Second. Questions about these that have been wordsmithed a bit more? Is there a so I just want to play catch up on this is there a further compromise reflected in this language since the last hearing? No.
 The language at the bottom of the page under revision, we've reordered the word. We've reordered that sentence, essentially. And I would actually, like, I would oppose P73, and PBOT has some concerns on that that Courtney Duke will relay, and I would like to add to P99 in front of the last sentence, P73.
 where it says provide adequate but not excessive off-street parking where needed i would feel much more comfortable with seek to provide just so procedurally we might need to unbundle these let's unbundle them if you don't mind i'll move p73 yeah if i might explain my rationale
 And it's unfortunate that most of you don't have the code in front of you, the comprehensive plan. So this is in a policy that looks at what are the purposes of the right-of-way. Courtney, do you want to explain that? Courtney, do you want to talk about it? Yeah, I'm just double-checking. Sorry. I didn't bring all my paperwork. So we just feel that this is related to the design of the streets or just what we said here in the presentation.
 The note that Eric wrote with our input that chapter 9 already addresses Parking and what the street looks like in the street design and that in the right-of-way where we talk about Transportation needs that parking is considered transportation at transportation need and to further highlight parking and
 just seems inconsistent with the work that we're doing related to parking and the parking strategies that we're working on around the city. So thank you for explaining that. So this is in section which is entitled Public Right-of-Way, and it specifies that the policies under it. So the first one is an interconnected network and then transportation function, utility function, stormwater management function, trees in the right-of-way, community uses, commercial uses.
 Those are defined as the functions of the right-of-way. And the reason this is important is because in Policy 8.48, in this right-of-way vacations, these are the things that we, the council, and future councils have to consider those particular functions when they're thinking of should we give up this public right-of-way. And so as we heard last week with the University of Portland and in other situations, Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Salsamo will remember the CACT
 to jack off of Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway, where there was a little crescent that really wasn't much use as a through street, but it was used for deliveries and for parking, which otherwise would have put the businesses fronting on Beaverton-Hillsdale out of business because there isn't parking on Beaverton-Hillsdale. So I want future councils to, and specifically in street vacations, and that's why I believe it has to be in here, that the
 Future councils should have to look at whether or not parking is required. So that's why I have this consider, not saying that we're going to, but just consider the need for parking for cars. And I'm open to different language if you think it's too designy. We can take our designing maybe, but in street conditions. Well, I just wonder why they're...
 the definition of transportation function doesn't include parking for you i was just about to say that so that or do we or is there something that we could look at in the transportation function definition that comma or something i mean that because we really tried to focus on the bigger functions in terms of connected network transportation utility stormwater and within those functions what what are we looking at to me parking is included in the transportation function
 I would agree, and I think that the rest of the language is broad enough that if we added specific language about parking, it would seem that we were elevating parking to godlike status. As long as it's considered in street vacations, that's my main concern. So if there's a way, Courtney, to figure out where in 8.38, I don't think there's a comma parking that goes in that sentence, but if there's another sentence. Oh.
 uh we don't have to do that necessarily
 this moment but we should do it before we finish our amendment so once you see let's let's set this one over at least for a little while this afternoon see if you can't come back with language on that one I don't think there's much disagreement about the intent I think I get your argument I would agree with that in terms of looking at the street vacations to see how parking is included in that we just again think it's within the transportation function why we pass on that one for the moment to get you to come back in a little bit with a
 maybe some recommended language and see let's see where we are in p99
 So I'll withdraw my motion on P73 and make a motion that we adopt P99. Second. Okay. And this is in response to Rose City Park and other neighborhoods that are concerned as we're adding density. This would allow us, as again we did during the Sam Adams administration, to look at division and recognize that not having any parking was required in large multifamily developments was really causing problems.
 And so that was why I'd like to have this language that says provide adequate but not excessive on-street parking where needed. Off-street, yeah. Off-street parking. Actually, yeah.
 What I suggested was, and I thought that Commissioner Fritz and I agreed to this part, provide adequate but not excessive off-street parking where needed, consistent with the preceding practices. Yes, we did. You're right. But to that, I would actually like to add at the beginning of that sentence, seek to, so it's seek to provide, in order to make it clear that that's something we will seek to do, but we're not opening ourselves up to lawsuits from somebody who said, well, you didn't provide. Right.
 All right, so I'll take Commissioner Novick's suggestion as an amendment to the language. We have strive to provide. That was what we had discussed before today. I find with strive, sir. Strive instead of seek. All right. Strive is always a good thing. Everyone, Courtney, are you comfortable with that? Yes.
 Yes. And could you, Commissioner, are you right? This doesn't transcribe. Oh, yes, it's down at the bottom. I do have it. So the new amendment for this policy, number 99, is strive to provide adequate but not excessive off-street parking where needed, consistent with the preceding practices. Okay. Further discussion? Okay.
 So we're amending now the policy. We're doing, this is the vote on the amendment? This is the vote. We're actually adopting P99 as reflected in the revision language and adding the words strive to. So that's a friendly amendment? Yes. Okay. Roll call. Fish. Aye. Holtzman. Well, I believe that off-street parking, I think we all know that is a major contributor to the increased cost of construction, therefore increasing cost of affordable housing.
 uh and i'm just not sure that uh not excessive is a very definable standard so i i vote no no vick hi hi hey all right okay we'll come back to p73 a little later unless you're ready right now
 Oh, look at that. You're great. I just had to have a go. One thing we're going to double check is the definition of transportation function that's in the TSP right now. So that's one thing we're going to look at while we're talking here. And then I got a note from one of your staff, too, to look at it. So I'll go back and do a little work. All right. That's great. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Let's take up right-of-way policy P76. I move to adopt.
 policy amendment p76 second and I move the motion okay well it's kind of presupposing on whether we adopt the previous amendments so I would prefer that we don't this is saying that transportation facilities isn't sufficiently
 Right, so we may or may not need another number here. So I would suggest we... Mr. Fritz's request for the good of the order, we'll do those both together later. Thank you. All right, so I'll move Policy Amendment P96. Is there a second on that one? That's the transit funding. Second. Joe, have we had any testimony for or against this? That's what my record says.
 We have had some input from Prime Ed. I don't know if it was a formal testimony. And so we actually have refined it with a further amendment. And I'm sorry, I didn't get this out before now. So this is...
 So we're adding in partnership. So transit funding, consider funding strategies and partnership opportunities that improve access to and equity in transit service such as raising metro-wide funding to improve service and or decrease or eliminate user fees fares. And I would move to delete the words or eliminate because those words really freak Primet out and I think decrease intuitively includes decrease to zero.
 And I would argue against that amendment because or is inclusive and it could be decreased or.
 Okay, so Commissioner Novick moves to strike the words or eliminate. Is there a second to that? Second. All right. So are you ready to vote on that question? I guess I'm not quite ready to vote on that question. I think this, you know, one could argue this doesn't need to be in the comp plan, but one could make that argument about a lot of things that are in the comp plan. And I don't generally accept that argument. So what's the effect of this policy provision? Okay.
 Well, so it's, I mean, it's instructions to Citi in considering, especially in their major project list and the funding of those, to consider our funding strategies. And by the addition of partnership opportunities, it's, I guess, clarified that it's not a funding strategy that's assigned to a single source of funding, be it the city or the metro, to accomplish these transit ends. Right.
 So it's a reminder that this equity in transit service and access to equity is something we need to follow through on in terms of funding strategies as well as just designation of lines on a map. A case in point might be improved transit service on 122nd.
 what would be the comp plan or even the city's practical function of doing that with Metro or as Metro in the lead figuring out how to fund that service or that service expansion is part of being able to deliver it. The effect of this wouldn't be to prohibit development absent transit funding. No. What does the phrase raising Metro-wide funding mean?
 I think it's partly to acknowledge the fact that this comprehensive plan depends on a pretty large step forward in the level of transit service throughout the region, and that we have an interest in kind of resolving that in partnership with those agencies. That's how I would read that. So would this then require us annually to have a hearing to consider funding strategies for this purpose, or is this something that comes up every time there is a transportation issue before us?
 No, it's a policy in the comp plan, which means that as you're making land use decisions in the future and as you're –
 looking at major projects that get adopted under the rubric of the comp plan like the Southwest Corridor that you are saying it's your policy to raise that question. Let me pose it slightly differently. The Transportation Commissioner can come to us and say we need to go to Washington, lobby for more money, we need to go to state, lobby for more money, we need to go to metro and divide up the pie differently, we need to raise fees, we need to stick TriMet with unfunded mandates, we can do all that. Why are we in this plan prioritizing any particular approach?
 Why are we identifying these two? Because we are privileging them by mentioning them. The goal we all have... It doesn't mention... Moving access to an equity and transit service is a core value that I assume is written in more than one place. Why are we privileging any particular strategy in furtherance thereof? You mean like raising metro life? Or eliminating fees. I mean, in one sense, you could...
 Why do we have to have that to guide that discussion? Those are two of a hundred strategies. Well, Commissioner, I'm not – I'm asking to have it clarified. I'm not picking a fight. Oh, no, no, no. I'm not sure 100 percent of the origins of this amendment. However, in reading it, its real focus is on –
 funding strategies to improve equitable access to transit. And I know for that same group of advocates, the user fees and fares and the effect on fare rates is a big issue for equitable transit access advocates as well. So maybe it came from that. I'm not sure. And it's in order to be able to achieve our land use strategies and indeed our climate action plan, we are going to need to encourage more people to use transit.
 And so recognizing that user fees are a barrier for some people, this actually would also speak to the youth pass, which this council has supported consistently, that in that case we have eliminated user fees by paying in a different way. I think it's a good policy. Sorry, Commissioner, you had another question? Does your amendment, Commissioner Fritz, have TriMet support?
 It's based on TriMet's input. What TriMet would prefer to have or eliminate eliminated? I can take that out if that's the key factor. Because I take your point, Commissioner Novick, that decrease could be decreased to zero. All right. If we make that change, I will support this. Okay. Thank you. All right. So let's take a vote on Commissioner Novick's amendment to remove the words or eliminate. Okay.
 Could I just accept it as a friendly amendment? Okay, you can. Let's do that. Since the sponsor has... Okay, so we're now ready to vote on the revised amendment based on transit. Try my input and with the friendly amendment of removing or eliminate. Yes. Okay, let's vote. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 I'm pleased that now when I ask Commissioner Fish to come lobby Congress or the State for transit money, I'll be able to tell him you have to come with me because it's in the comp plan. Aye. I'm just going to move to the next session. Thank you, everybody, for your support of this. It's very important to me. Aye. See, it was a trap. Aye. Okay. Thank you.
 Let's move on and come back later to the two items we bypassed, interim congestion standards. I move to incorporate the interim congestion standards as described in Item 4 of my April 11th memo into Chapter 9 of the comp plan. Second. And we have a staff substitution that I'd like to suggest. Oh, all right. Good. Mayor, I don't – Maybe a re-explanation would be in order, too. Brief re-explanation. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. OK. So this doesn't help me. Mayor, I hereby nominate you for policy wonk of the year, or maybe decade or century. I have no clue what this means. Could you explain it to me, please? I think I'm going to let the staff do it, because we'll do a better job.
 Both the state and the region have standards by which we all are required to measure the success of our transportation system. In policy 9.49, we talk about adopting multimodal standards going forward so that we're not just measuring congestion based on traffic, but our intent was not to make
 completely throw out measuring based on traffic and in fact the region and odot have regional and state requirements that our comprehensive plan has to reference and so our our request with this amendment this was a staff generated amendment to add reference to those regional standards that apply to us
 so that our comp plan is consistent with the regional plan in that way. They're expressed as interim standards because both the city and the region have the wider policy of broadening in the future to multimodal standards. In the meantime, though, we have to have some standards. But do we have to have them in the comprehensive plan? Yes. Couldn't we just reference them? The facilities...
 One of the functions of the comp plan is to contain our service standards, right?
 for the various services that are provided. And so this came out of a concern as we were preparing findings for the comprehensive plan that the other service standards had been provided, but we had not provided this. So it's kind of a consistency. There's a part two of this coming as the rest of the TSP moves forward, where there may be an option to have them sit deeper within the TSP so they're not on the –
 and the top level policies, but that's coming to you in the fall, so I can't put it there yet. So then every time we change, these numbers change, we have to amend the comprehensive plan? These numbers haven't changed before. But they will in the future, right? These are interim thresholds. Yeah, we're intending to change this, but in the meantime we need something in the comp plan to be consistent with those regional and state standards.
 So maybe the flip side of that is what happens if we didn't? It makes our discussion of adequacy of transportation facilities under the new comp plan a little bit challenging because we'd have no standards to make those findings. Eric, in fairness, we've been told all along not to get very prescriptive, not to make policy decisions, not to cross a certain line. We now have a page which is...
 I think the award winner for violating the admonition he gave us. And there's a simple way to resolve that, which is just to reference some other – to just have a cross-reference in the document. Those don't exist yet in the city's code, so there is no other place to – It's a temporary – I guess I'd describe this as a temporary problem because we're bringing you the comp plan in stages starting with the top level.
 And then in the fall, we're going to bring you the detailed level. But as we bring forward the comprehensive plan map, we have to have a way to judge whether that map is consistent with our transportation system. And in the absence of having any standards in the comp plan, we've violated the rule about having some standard to judge that. But you have –
 After number one, I mean, number one is beautifully clear. Create a regional congestion management approach, including a market-based system to price or charge for auto trips and parking, better account for the cost of auto trips, and to more efficiently manage the regional system. Couldn't you just add to that, establish interim standards and update them as necessary? Sure.
 We could, but we need them to exist now so that the current comp plan you're adopting has a basis of evaluating the transportation adequacy. Can we do that by resolution? Can't we just bring it as a placeholder resolution? I understand the reluctance about the specificity of this. The current comp plan has a similar level of specificity in this particular topic because of the state law structure. I think this is –
 This is – it's required that we have a touchstone for this. Can you put it in the back with the project lists and such? What we were thinking of doing is when we bring forward the next phase of this, where the more detailed document is, that we would move –
 Where the other more details are. We would move this into that once it's brought forward so it doesn't have to sit up with the other high-level policies. So you could be amending this fall. It's sort of when we bring that phase of the project forward, but we're not quite there yet. I think we're caught between a rock and a hard place because we have to have something in there. So you're saying –
 In this one instance, overlook some of the guidance you've given us before, put this in the comp plan with the understanding that we'll be updating it in the future. Right. Yeah, and with even the direction for us to revisit it in the fall before it goes into effect. Commissioner Fritz is artfully looking for a way to bury it in the appendix or some way so it doesn't seem as conspicuous, but I get that it has to be in there somehow. As a general policy issue, I try not to vote on things that I have no clue whether 0.99 or 1.1 are the –
 Right. Numbers. Has the Planning Commission had a solid discussion on this or somebody else? No. It's sort of a yes-no question because the numbers are fixed in state and regional policy, so we actually can't really change them. Okay. That's comforting. A number one means that what volume to capacity is is a measure of how many cars are on the road over how many cars are able to be on the road by its design.
 And if the number is over one, it means that it's congested. Could you just put it on the screen so that people at home know that I'm not making a big deal out of nothing, that this is why I'm – It is indeed complicated. Yes, and I'm glad that we have – there we go. Thank you. So I'm glad that we have staff who have worked it through, and I'm especially glad that it's already law that we have to do it anyway. In a nutshell, what it means is that –
 The 1.1 figure for the central city and certain freeways is an acknowledgment that we're accepting a greater level of congestion in those areas because we have other priorities. And we want the central city to be dense, and there's no way to do that without congestion.
 Going above one in terms of the of the traffic. It's another way of saying what the mayor has said before that there will be traffic Can you assure us that you have scrubbed these numbers? And can authenticate them as in fact this standard I
 Well, I have to say that I personally would prefer that the numbers be .992 and 1.13, but I have to defer to the existing standards. I'm comfortable with them. All right. Let's move. I move the motion. Okay. Let's take a vote. Fish. Aye. Novick. Thank you very much for the explanation. Aye. Aye.
 That was a very good explanation, and it is good that we have city staff who are experts in things who help us get stuff done. Thank you. Aye. Aye. Okay. And just to clarify, you adopted the amended version that I handed you. It also directs you to continue working towards the multimodal performance measures noted in Policy 9.48. Yes. Please do. All right. Environmental justice. And these bundles, they are...
 Okay, I move to adopt policy amendments P5 and P9. And if I might second, and I'd like to, as a friendly amendment to my amendment, remove the hyphen between African Americans to be consistent with the other. My understanding is that is the correct. Can I ask the sponsor a question? Yes. In P9, communities of color is defined as including African Americans, and yet in –
 In P5, there's a reference to communities of color, but a separate reference to African-Americans. So why are you dealing with them differently? So the Planning and Sustainability Commission chose to add to – you're correct, Commissioner. I think my preference would have been to just refer to communities of color. The Planning and Sustainability Commission chose to add Native Americans –
 as called out as separate. And so that got my staff and me and folks in the office of neighborhood involvement thinking about who are some of the most disadvantaged communities, and so that's why we wanted to add African Americans and descendants of immigrants who have been disproportionately impacted. Yes, we recognize that all communities of color and many immigrant and refugee communities have been disadvantaged.
 So is the, from a drafting point of view, is the worst thing you can say about the drafting here is that it's redundant?
 Yes. Because communities of color is clearly defined under 2.1.B to include African Americans. So is it your intention to essentially state it in the general and in the specific? Yes, and also to respect the fact that it was important to the Planning and Sustainability Commission to specifically list Native Americans as
 So I get the Native American piece, but just the question I would have is, again, if you're pulling African Americans out of communities of color but not similarly highlighting other communities that have a historic disadvantage,
 How do we argue the one and not the other? Well, we've had a lot of discussions about this over the past year, including with planning and sustainability and within the diversity and civic leadership groups in the Office of Native Involvement. And so when Native Americans called out, especially those other people who historically lived here and who my ancestors and yours took the land from and committed genocide...
 When we're looking at other communities that have had particular atrocities committed against them, one of the next, again, historically my ancestors brought people from Africa and made them slaves and brought them here. And, you know, Oregon was founded as a state that was supposedly free, but no person that we now call African American was allowed to live here.
 similarly with the internment of the Japanese Americans during the war. And so those are the groups that we were looking at. If we are going to call out,
 Those who have been even more disadvantaged than others. We hate to get into the oppression Olympics of who is the most disparaged and disadvantaged, but it seems to me that given the Planning Commission's desire to call out Native Americans, that adding these other two categories is appropriate. Let me clear then, staff, if I were to oppose this,
 It would just revert to communities of color, which was intended to cover the whole spectrum of communities of color, correct? The Planning Commission had a similar discussion about whether you have a long list or you use a general term.
 In the end, they kind of did a hybrid, which has created this issue. So that was our original intent, was that communities of color cover those terms. And then the definition section under Policy 2.1 makes that clear. But then, Commissioner, you would still have sovereign tribes and Native Americans called out specifically. And sovereign tribes certainly is recognition of the sovereignty, and we've passed binding city policy on that, but then Native American would still be listed. So that's an alternative that we could –
 Given that Native Americans are listed under communities of color, we could take that out. But it was, as I say, important to that. Here's my only preference, and this is an issue I care deeply about. We are having a conversation now about trying to understand something that has become more complicated by the additions.
 that's going to make it more complicated for a future policymaker. So my preference is to keep it as clear and consistent as possible. And therefore, I would remove Native American and African American so that communities of color controls both in P5 and in P9. I would be willing to support that. I think your intent is to be as broad and inclusive as possible. But I just think that
 that a redundancy in this nature raises questions of interpretation that go well beyond what you intend. So I would strike it so that communities of color controls. And I think sovereign tries are, in fact, different. Your amendment, Commissioner, is to remove Native American, African Americans, and descendants of immigrants. Yes, which are all defined under communities of color below.
 So communities of color controls, and that is, in fact, the term of art that we use consistently. Well, would you delete the whole underlined phrase in 9? Yes. I mean, the issue is, do we want to, in the comprehensive plan, recognize that
 there have been historical atrocities that need to be acknowledged and perhaps reparations made. MR. I think that each council can decide, as we have done with the Office of Equity in choosing to begin by prioritizing certain communities and certain causes, I think that becomes a policy decision. But I would prefer in P5 to have communities of color control. And I think the
 In P9, including those, blah, blah, blah, is helpful. So I would just make the deletion in P5 and keep P9 as it is, as amended. Okay, so Commissioner Fish moves that amendment. Let's do this deal separately. Let's do it one at a time. Let's do P5. No, I think that's it. Are you comfortable with that, Commissioner? No.
 i'd actually like you to go over the two things and things again i think that generally i am well let's take them let's take them apart one at a time so let's do p5 on p5 my amendment is to delete and native american african-american and descendants of immigrants who second okay so now we understand that effect and actually communities as well
 I think you need the word who to continue the sentence, who have been disproportionately. So the word who would stay. So delete and Native American, African American, and descendants of immigrants and keep who. All right. Second. So let's take a vote on that amendment. Second. All right. Let's vote on that. Aye. So, Commissioner Fish, I really appreciate your leadership on this and your willingness to have these difficult conversations. Keeping sovereign tribes in,
 I think does honor what the planning sustainability Commission was Intending to note that that is different and so I am appreciate this amendment. I Okay, so now let's vote to accept p5 as amended Okay
 And you're saying just keep, Commissioner, you're planning that we would make the changes in this one? That's because it's a definitional, and I think you have more latitude in defining it, but the term communities of color controls. So you would, so I move removing all the underlined language in 2.1b, right? Okay.
 I don't. That's not what you want to do? No, I don't see a need to. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay, I'm not following. Because it includes including. So communities of color is the general term. Right, okay. And if in the definition it says it includes, I have no core. I'm agnostic on that. Okay, so you're okay with the language as it is now. Yes. Is there, from a staff question here, is there a question of commas and semicolons or a structure of that in terms of which is the general and which is the specific definition?
 I would happily defer to the staff to work that out. In terms of grammar, I'm not sure if you're saying communities of color includes the whole subsequent list or that including phrase ends somewhere. Sure.
 if you can follow what I'm saying. Communities of color, including those whose families have been in this area for generations, such as low-income populations, limited English proficient communities, and other underserved and underrepresented communities. And if I might further add, now that we're looking at that, instead of Native American communities, which is already covered above there, if we could add immigrants and refugees. Yes.
 Again, by saying including, it is meant to be illustrative and we have more flexibility. Above, we created a redundancy, which created some confusion in my reading. So I would accept that as a friendly amendment. Okay, so with that friendly amendment of adding immigrants and refugees to the list after limited English proficient communities. That makes it clear that immigrants and refugees are included in consideration of communities of color, whether in fact they are Caucasian or not.
 Thank you. Further discussion? Let's take a vote on that policy as further amended. Aye. Aye. I want to thank everybody in the community and various commissions and parts of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, my staff. This may seem like a
 wording issue, it's obviously hugely important. And thank you to Deborah and your team and everybody who's spent a lot of time on getting this right. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your assistance. Aye. Colleagues? I'm sorry. Aye. That's all right. Go ahead. Could we interrupt proceedings to recognize the visiting dignitary? Of course. We have here with us today Kirk Bloodsworth. Yes.
 who was wrongly convicted of murder, was the first, I believe, the first person released from death row. Actually, I think you've learned that they're already more by DNA evidence and has been a crusader against the death penalty. And for those wrongly convicted. And he's an old friend of colleague of my wife, Rachel's. And it's great to have him here. Welcome. Nice to have you here. All right. All right.
 Okay. Let's move on, right? Oh, Courtney's back. Are you ready? I can be. All right. Let's go back there before we forget what we were doing. Did you vote on the? Yes, we did. We did P9. So we have two left on the schedule, Mayor. All right. Let's do those and then come back. All right. We'll come back to the last one. And we'll actually have a break before our next hearing. Okay. What a concept. I move to adopt policy amendment P8. Seconded.
 any discussion uh commissioner fish didn't you have a suggestion to add the word neighborhoods back in well i'm um i'm trying to read my own handwriting here so jamie could i talk to you for a second neighborhoods promotes yeah communities organizations neighborhood associations business associations that's pretty close i don't know to me it seems that if you say neighborhood associations without saying neighborhoods the assumption is that neighborhood associations are always completely represented in their neighborhood which is not true
 Well, that's an incorrect assumption, so we don't. Well, the, so let me just pose the question. The existing language of neighborhoods and businesses is, as I understand it, meant to be very broad in application. There are neighborhood associations and business associations in parts of the city that purport to speak for businesses and neighborhoods. But by using the words neighborhoods and businesses, the original language was intended to be broader in scope. Is that correct?
 It was originally. And what's the counterargument for limiting it to either neighborhood associations or business associations? The city has had a recognized system of neighborhood associations for over 30 years, and that's part of our structure. Well, so I'm just thinking out loud, but is it also not our value that we welcome comment from a business or a neighborhood member whether or not they participate through their association? Yes.
 And by stating it more broadly as neighborhoods and businesses, aren't we including within that the associations as well as unaffiliated members, in which case we're giving the broadest possible birth to – we're sanctioning the broadest possible participation? Yeah.
 I believe we need to honor our existing structures, including Venture Portland and the business associations that are associated with them. Individuals, covers, neighbors, and business owners who are testifying for themselves. We have a structure of public involvement that certainly includes everybody, and we have business associations recognized by ONI –
 Business associations organized under Venture Portland and working with PDC and the neighborhood associations working with the Office of Neighbor Involvement. Well, Commissioner Fritz, I'm just trying to wordsmith this. What if we kept neighborhoods and businesses in and added neighborhood associations and business associations? What's the definition of those? I'm not sure if they're defined. Yeah, they are. It would be. The T11? Yeah. Yeah.
 Okay, that could be added. And actually, Venture Portland does not support this amendment. Plus, I don't want to be the contrarian, but I live in an orphan part of northeast Portland that is actually not mapped by any neighborhood association. It happens to make, it's an anomaly. But if the sponsor was willing to just include neighborhood associations and business associations and retain neighborhoods and businesses, I could support that. Okay, with that, Commissioner Fritz.
 I think that ensures the broadest possible scope. Can we call them neighborhood? Yes, that's fine. Okay. So we'll accept that as a friendly amendment rather than having to vote on it unless anyone disagrees. Keeps that. Adding those two words back in that are now crossed out, neighborhoods and businesses. And let's take a vote, please, on the policy amendment P8 with that further friendly amendment revision. Appreciate very much the discussion. Aye. Councilman. Aye. Novick.
 Okay, one more before we go back to PBOT, and that is I move to adopt this additional policy on historic preservation into the historic and cultural resources section of Chapter 4, new policy, state historic resource support, advocate for state policies, programs, and legislation that would enable stronger historic resource designations, protections, and rehabilitation of those.
 Second. I move the motion. Actually, Commissioner, I have a further amendment, and that is to add and federal, so state and federal historic resources support and advocate for state and federal policies. Oh, good catch. Okay. I'll accept that as a friendly amendment. Thank you. Further discussion? I'm actually not sure what...
 Federal policies. I know what the state policy is we're concerned about. I don't know enough about the federal policies to be able to support that. It would be landmark designation, right? Yeah, National Historic Landmarks. It could pertain to the National Register of Historic Places and the removal process or incentives for historic rehabilitation. We do have a federal program for that.
 I understand that under state law, the problem is that the landowner can just decide that they don't want their property to be historic. I don't know that there's the same sort of concern at the federal level, and they don't understand enough about the federal scheme to say I can support this. Well, this is a position of interest.
 policy support and direction for advocacy. If advocacy for change isn't needed at the federal level because there is no such loophole, we wouldn't be advocating change. Well, but apparently we're saying we're advocating for stronger historic resource designations at the federal level, and since I don't know what the current federal policies are, I can't say for sure that I'd support that. Okay. Well, I think as a general policy it's a good idea, so maybe we just – Have you accepted that as a friendly amendment, Mayor? I have. I move the motion. Okay. Let's vote.
 this hi hi no no great hi okay let's go back to this is our last one this is the penultimate one and it's
 No one actually knows what it means, but it's just a wonderful word. It's second to last. It's a second to last. Today they don't mention that word. It is a second to last, but you're one of the few people that knows that. I like that. It's second to ultimate, not second to last. Let me put it this way, Commissioner. It's really important to me. Give us a number again. Sorry. I think we were on, was it P73 on page 34? Is that the one that you were? Yeah.
 So, it's a new policy after 8.40. Okay. Okay, what have you got, Courtney? Well, I think what I have is still not supportive of a new policy, but looking at existing policy 8.38, transportation function. So, a couple things to say. So, I spoke with some more staff over at PBOT.
 Sorry, I'm buzzing. Children texting me. In our understanding of the word access and how we have it defined in our design classifications that we're modifying right now in Stage 3, access includes parking, parking and loading, bike parking, access to local services.
 One reason in that definition of access, both in those classifications or in the glossary, that we don't list every single thing out because we could always miss something. So, again, from a policy planner, bureaucrat perspective, access includes parking. So to us, it's covered. So, again, if council and Commissioner Fritz still feels that they would like to have that highlighted, we're more comfortable with policy 8.38 to say,
 transportation function improve and maintain the right-of-way to support multimodal transportation mobility comma access to goods and services and parking as is consistent with the designated Street classification because again we're modifying those Street classifications right now to further discuss access in different parts of the city and what that looks like including on street parking or lack of on street parking because there will be some locations where Street designations do not highlight or do not
 prioritize on street parking that's so that's so in lieu of p73 commissioner fritz moves revisioned policy 3.38 as just uh iterated by courtney
 And I agree with Courtney that parking is included already with reference to access to goods. And I think that calling it out highlights it in a necessary and unfortunate manner, basically saying parking uber alas. Parking uber alas? I think it's parking inter alas in this case. This is really important to me. I think it's really important in street vacations.
 I hear your point about streaming. Well, staff, I just want to understand, because you're saying it's already covered somewhere else. So in the event something comes before council in the future and we have it in these two places, what's the practical effect of that?
 So I think the practical effect, if you're looking at, I believe, a street vacation, which is what Commissioner Fritz is most looking at, we would still want to be looking at the consistent with the designated street classification. So you would go to the street classification description, that either it's a major city traffic or a bikeway or...
 And we have definitions and descriptions as to what those designations should have. And we are actually revising them, and you'll see those in the next stage of the TSP, about how we treat that space. And in a number of locations, that space does not prioritize – prioritize is probably the wrong word, but on-street parking is not necessarily one of the first things we put there. But there's other locations where on-street parking is discussed and is a part of that and would be included in the street function –
 Another place where we could be making some additional changes that could help clarify this is, again, updating the transportation system plan. We could make additional amendments to our glossary to reiterate that transportation function and transportation facilities include parking and or that access includes all of these things. But are we, in the event something comes before us with this change, are we tilting the playing field somehow?
 Or are we changing the way in which the issue might be decided? There's a continuum. I mean, if every fourth word was parking, I think that that would be tilting. If you never mention it at all, that's another end of the continuum. That's where we're at right now.
 I mean, there's no mention of bicycles or pedestrians or any other thing specific in 838. It's very general. Improve and maintain the right of way to support multimodal transportation, mobility, and access to goods and services. That's very general language. You throw parking in, and oddly, this is kind of similar to the discussion we just had about committed use of color and other specific things. I see no need to highlight parking in the context of this very general statement.
 Okay, well, another alternative is I'm really concerned about street vacations because that's when you give up the public right-of-way. So another alternative would be to change Policy 8.48 and to say maintain rights-of-way if there is an established or existing need for them, such as for transportation facilities, parking, or other public functions. Isn't parking part of the transportation facility itself? No, it isn't. That's the point. In the definition, it is, yes, in the glossary.
 I believe. And if not, we can add it. I think transportation facility includes on and off street parking, right? Correct. Not listed. Again, we would be more comfortable putting it in the glossary than putting it in the policy statement. That seems like a win. There isn't a definition of a transportation facility. There is in the transportation system plan, which is a component of the comprehensive plan. So we can make sure that that's clear in there.
 As well as under access. I think the concern you're raising, Commissioner Fritz, is valid. If it's really true that that's covered in that part of the TSP, then I think that may do it. A future policy won't like me on the council when reviewing street vacations is going to go and look at what are the criteria that I'm supposed to make this on. And I'm not necessarily going to pull out my transportation system plan. I'm going to want it to be, because this is the land use issue. Right.
 We do look at the comp plan. We do vacations. All right, so your most recent proposal is to add the word parking. Transportation facilities, comma, parking or other public functions. In 848 instead of public. Yeah, in the right-of-way policy. Okay. So Commissioner Fritz moves that amendment in lieu of her other one, and I'll second it.
 So we'll see if that has... And I apologize, I don't have that written out. Do you want me to... Commissioner Fritz, do you still want to amend that to include 8.43 as well? Yes, that's another... Let's handle that as a separate item. Yeah, that's already another one. So let's take a vote on that, which is, again, to amend...
 the existing 8.48 specifically about right-of-way vacations. This doesn't apply to transportation or land use decision-making in general. It just applies to vacations. Right. Okay. Ready to take a vote on that? And it would say maintain public rights of way if there is an established or existing future need for them, such as for transportation facilities, parking, or other public functions established in policies, which we'll get to in a minute. And just so I'm clear,
 The worst that you could say from a drafting point of view here is that we've created a redundancy. MR. Yes, Commissioner. MR. And Commissioner Novick, do you believe the redundancy, you keep invoking Uber and Lyft, do you believe that that somehow changes the meaning of the, changes the MR. I'm not using Uber in that context. MR. I think that since pre-trial,
 transportation facilities, Courtney tells us, is defined to include parking in the TSP, then again, calling out parking makes it sound like that is the most important existing or future need that needs to be considered, and I don't think that's appropriate. Okay. Ready to vote? Let's take a vote. Yes. Good discussion. I have two colleagues who feel strongly, but I think this can be resolved through the definition, so I vote no. Okay.
 no no no really disappointing we were so close to getting to what I thought would be something I could completely support and we're so invested in getting right and this is not right I so the the number question it may be easier to look at the
 Would you tell me what amendment we're on again? This is the same one, but just considering the final edit there about what policies are referenced in street vacations. What number is the amendment? 67. Page 35. Page 36.
 So it's the same policy you were just talking about. Oh, all right. At the end, there's a reference to what other public functions do you consider in a street vacation. And currently, if you stop at 8.41, you leave out community uses, which is a policy that I believe –
 the sponsors of this amendment wanted to include. The reason we changed it to P43 was with the assumption that you were adding the parking item in there, and so we would be increasing the number. So I think the –
 Right now, the – No, no. It still needs to go to 43. Is it commercial uses? Commercial uses are certainly – Right. Well, so that's the question is where do you want to draw the line? Right now, it's transportation function, utility function, stormwater, trees, community uses, commercial uses, and then flexible design, which is kind of a different topic. So –
 So you were going to stop at 41, which is trees, and not consider community uses or commercial uses. Correct. That's where the planning commission stopped. So the question is, where do you stop there? I see your point. All right, do we get this? Do I understand the distinction? So you want to leave it with 43 and call the question. I'll take a vote on that. So can I get some guidance from the sponsor? Who's the sponsor of this? I am. Does anyone disagree with the sponsor? No. I agree with the sponsor. Okay, ready to vote. Who's the motion? Spoke. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Aye.
 hi okay now so are we done except for the Metro with the exception of the Metro I believe you're done so the the discussion we had that's been put over 66 oh we'd never closed that one I think that was they went to the right of way they went a different direction in there right
 We just have the Metro matter next Thursday, is that right? Right. You decided to have a specific time for the Metro matter. So with the sole exception of item number 55, the Metro properties, which we've continued to Thursday at 2 p.m.,
 then we're done with our action on amendments, correct? Right. So the next step is you're asking us to prepare findings and final documents to bring back to you, I believe, aiming for June 9th. It would be a substitute ordinance incorporating the revised as amended documents.
 So this item is continued until the 19th next Thursday at 2 p.m. for the sole purpose of considering the Metro amendment. And then it will be…
 And subsequently brought back to council with findings. Joe, are we clear that whatever written materials Metro prepares, they review with you so that your office can make a recommendation to council? Yes, we'll be in touch with them tomorrow to firm up those logistics. Mayor, may I, since we're closing out this hearing, may I join with you and others in complimenting staff from the Planning Bureau for the superb way they've managed this? Yes, sure.
 And I missed the last hearing, and I'm already exhausted. I mean, two years is a little bit. This is an incredibly arduous, complicated matter, and you guys make it look easy. So thank you. Good work. Thank you very much. Please suspend the rules. Yes, let's suspend the rules. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, we're recessed for an hour and ten minutes. Mayor, can I make one? I'm sorry. Did you say 2 p.m. and you're going to move it in front of the other time surgeons? Yes. Okay, and it'll be a four-fifths agenda item because you've missed the deadline for the agenda. Okay, that's fine. We can do it as a four-fifths. Thank you. Thank you. Good work. All right. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 All right.
 Okay, got it.