Okay, I think we're on time. Ready, Carla? Yes. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the May 18th meeting of the Portland City Council. Please call the roll. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Good morning, everyone. We have the council calendar concludes a couple of time certains this morning, including working on our budget starting at 945. And...
 We have one request so far to pull items from the consent calendar, the regular calendar, that being 5-14. Anything else? Anyone wants to pull the regular calendar? Okay.
 Okay, and if you're here to testify on a regular calendar item, please make sure you've signed up with our council clerk. Obviously, it doesn't look like we have so many people here that we won't be able to allow people three minutes to speak this morning, so that's what we'll plan to do. And with that, let's move to communication item 507. Request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address council regarding science. 514, the settlement. I'm Shedrick J. Wilkins. I was born in Portland, Oregon, and I live here.
 I was homeless five years ago. Anyway, I'd like to brag that I'm kind of a prophet now. Hopefully this one's right. Disclaim this as artwork, right? So I don't like Donald Trump. Don't want to say that one. Anyway, I'm a little happy right now. So I want free community colleges in Oregon because I have a grudge against the Intel Corporation.
 And in 1998, they didn't hire me, and I've given a handout to city council. I support Bernie Sanders because he wants free universities. I'd like him to be vice president. He supports free universities and colleges.
 Pre-community colleges, Senator Wyden has kind of met him in the middle and said he would like to have free community colleges. At least that's what he stated in the voters pamphlet. I lured Senator Wyden a letter. He has not returned my letter yet. It doesn't mean he probably gets a lot of letters. I want to see free community colleges in Oregon with my name on it.
 And I think it would be good because Intel now announces that they're going to have 10% layoffs, which means these people are educated. And if it's a bachelor's degree, you cannot get Pell Grants. And so it would be a good idea. Some of these people might want to retrain and let's say stem cell research, and maybe we should make it free.
 And at community college, you definitely get your hands on. I took a course at PCC in plasma etching of integrated circuits, and I loved it, and I got an A because I'm getting my hands on stuff. And when I was at the University of PSU, basically it's quantum mechanics and blackboard stuff, and you don't touch anything. And if you work for Intel, you don't touch anything until you're employed.
 But I love the PCC Capital Center because I actually saw a plasma etching machine that looks like a jukebox machine that costs $200,000. And I actually saw it was like they had a model of a fab plant out at Beaverton. So you kind of can see what this looks like. They have a little railroad track that carries the wafers. This is comical. These are things I don't see in a textbook. I don't see.
 That's why I want free community colleges, because educated people may not have the money or they have financial commitments, and they're laid off and they need to retrain. Well, that's pretty simple. I've arranged for another talk to next month. Have a nice day, and I'm happy. Thank you. Have a good day. All right. Item 508, please. Request of Charles Johnson to address council regarding rent control and demolishing Portland history and sensible homes. Morning. Good morning.
 For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. Good morning, lame duck and winners and runoff contenders. Although today we'll be caught up in being a little trivial about the election and recognizing that 36 years ago, we were a little bit more concerned with volcanic ash than Ted Wheeler. The truth is, is that just two blocks north of here, people are getting evicted and
 And some of those people are going to be getting a number at transition projects or join where they're going to be told that their number 420 or higher on a list to get shelter that they'll qualify for in November, about the time we're having a general election. So I hope that there'll be excellent transition work between Mayor Hales and incoming Mayor Ted Wheeler so that we can talk about, even with the millions of dollars shortfall in a hoped-for budget,
 how we're going to keep people inside the Sears Armory overnight. Nobody's life is going to get better when Sears Armory closes. We need to double down to get more people into shelters, even if the weather is nice. Only for fear of damaging our tourism business, we should not be moving people into tents on Memorial Day weekend and the first weekend in June for the parade.
 So one way to do that is for this current council and people elected to this council to explain clearly to the state government that there is an emergency in Portland. We've created it with a crazy real estate market. People need to have rent stabilization. Some people have no other hope.
 of not becoming homeless other than to have the government say, you know, if your property taxes went up zero and everything else about your property went up zero, at this time we can't have you kick your tenants out so that you can increase the rent 40%. That's sane and rational. In this country we have laws against usury and ridiculous rates on credit cards. We can also in Oregon lead with limitations on rent increases.
 I also mentioned Stop Demolishing Portland, but I know that Barbara Kite is an excellent communicator and will make sure that you do all in your power to save the beautiful tree there in the 7300 block of Washington and maybe have a negative economic impact on Mr. Remmer's big dreams. I want to thank all the people who ran, even the candidates who only got 3% of the vote. Thank you.
 I was surprised that Mr. Wheeler was able to bring in over 50% and leave us with a very focused conversation about the pros and cons of retaining Mr. Novick on the council. Congratulations to Sharon Mirren, who will be a leading candidate in the county commission. Thank you. Okay, item 509, please. Request of Dennis Sean Montgomery to address council regarding improving the homeless situation. Montgomery, you hear? Yes.
 okay i guess we'll move on then to 510. request of john russell to address council regarding neighbor improvements for the keller auditorium and the halprin sequence good morning morning mr mayor members of council congratulations commissioner fritz i'm john russell 200 southwest market street in portland i'm here speaking on behalf of nine property owners in an area bounded roughly by southwest maine
 South Park blocks interstate 405 and River Place Portland State is one of our members The other eight of us own some two dozen city blocks in the area The other members are Scott Andrews of Melvin mark properties who took the time to be here today They own a partnership interest in the two blocks to make up Crowne Plaza the two blocks of the state of the old State Office building in Columbia Square and
 Greg Goodman of Downtown Development owns an interest in Crowne Plaza and the vacant lot to the east of Coyne Center. Julie LaVray and Randy LaVray of Oregon Pacific own apartments, office, retail, and land between 1st and Park Avenue. And Julie also took the time to be here today. Tom Kilbane of Urban Renaissance Group owns the Oregonian building that's been virtually entirely pre-leased before the end of its reconstruction.
 Bob Scanlon of SKB owns KOIN Tower and the CH2M Hill Building at 4th and Lincoln, and Bob has taken the time to be here today. Sankalene of Cambia Health owns an interest in our 200 Market Building in a second block on Southwest 1st. Kevin Reynolds is the representative from Portland State. This is an area that most people believe is thriving, and it is. I mean, most of our buildings are relatively full,
 and the area is seeing important new construction. We're in the neighborhood of the new county courthouse, the renovation of the Argonian building, the new Porter Hotel, Walt Bowen's new hotel office development on Broadway, the construction projects on the PSU campus and a new apartment building and grocery store at 4th and Harrison. Our area is well served by streetcar and light rail. However, we came together as a group
 but not because we're thriving but because we see clouds on the horizon our rental rates lag those in the pearl district by some 20 percent there are tenants who have chosen not to locate in our district because they believe that it isn't sufficiently attractive to the millennial workforce that wants a more vibrant street scene we met as a group with some three dozen prominent creative types in early december and late january to help us formulate a plan to improve the neighborhood
 now each of us is spending millions on our own buildings to make them more attractive at ground levels you may wonder then why any of this should be particular interest to council the answer is that we believe that the condition of some public sector properties are detrimental to our neighborhood we would like to enlist your support to let us improve them they are three the first is the killer auditorium which although it is operated by metro murk and portland five
 is owned by the city. Mayor, since John's speaking for four people today, could we give him an additional minute? Give you a little extra time because this is on the council calendar later this morning as well, so it's an unusual situation. Okay. We have several ideas that we believe can transform the building. We've hired Shields Oblitz-Johnson to see if solar panels can be installed on the roof at no cost to the public.
 like was done at the Convention Center. We hope to commission Don Stastny to conduct an international design competition for a comprehensive signage program for the Keller on the same scale as the signage for the Schnitz. We will need Council approval for that signage. The second public properties are the two fountains and the Halpern sequence. A particular concern is the forecourt fountain. The grass is turned to moss. The fountain pumps were only turned on early in April.
 The lights that illuminate the fountain from underneath are not working, nor are the lights that illuminate the fountain from above. We would like your permission to do these repairs at no cost to the city using union labor. We envision the Halpern sequence functioning like the Japanese and Chinese gardens with the Halpern Conservancy.
 john let me ask you a question that is the the in this again we have a budget note on the council calendar later this morning yes um and that is uh our our
 Our budget note is contingent on you and these other property owners forming a local improvement district. That's right. And if that all comes to pass, if we earmark this funding for the fall budget management process here, monitoring process here, and if you succeed in forming the LID, which it sounds like it's pretty likely given who's in the room and who you've listed, will that –
 that combination of city resources and property owner contributions accomplish the majority of the repairs that need to be done, or is it only just a start? No, I think they will accomplish it, particularly if it's done with the Halpern Conservancy, and again, like the Japanese garden and the Chinese garden.
 So is the Halperin Conservancy already formed as a nonprofit? Yes. So that already exists. That exists now as a 501c3 nonprofit. Yeah, and it has for some time. Okay. Right. So they're capable of taking, if the city through the Parks Bureau decides to have some responsibilities performed by a nonprofit, you already are there. Yeah, and we've done that in the past. Yeah. Yeah.
 Okay, well I need you to wrap up because we gave you some extra time There's an unusual situation because this is a partnership with the city and last last paragraph. We're all in this together We as private property owners in the city is the owner of public properties together We can make this area retain the vitality that it had when our buildings and your properties were new and
 Thank you. Thank you very much. And, again, we appreciate hearing from you. I think you can even just let staff know if you think the language that we have for the budget note that we'll be considering later this morning, I'm not sure if you're staying, but if you think that language is correct, then the council's prepared to act on some version of that. It is. Commissioner Fish has shared it with us, and it's perfect. Okay, great. Thank you very much. Appreciate that.
 Okay, let's take the next person, please. 511. Request of Joe Walsh to address counsel regarding justice and communication. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. On the ADA, I'm going to ask for a little time extra over the three minutes because I'm struggling with some of the words. On May 4th, an activist named Keith Davis...
 asked that his three minutes of testimony be held in silence in honor of another activist who allegedly taken her own life. He was called out of order and was removed from the council. Your decision. And once again, I was removed from the council when I came to the defense of Mr. Davis. We and other organizations find that behavior outrageous. Michelle was a gentle soul
 who came to this council as a citizen to express her opinions, but disliked confrontation face-to-face and would often be in the back and yell objections about the meeting. She was a fierce defender of the people who live on our streets. She was a victim and a survivor of domestic violence. She was a gentle soul, my friend.
 and you may or could have handled Mr. Davis's request with style and patience. Once again, your inability to understand the hurt that was felt in the community with this loss demonstrated by you calling an activist out of order when you are out of order most of the time during these meetings. You run these meetings any way you like, and we just had an example before me.
 If you like the person, they get six minutes. You don't like them, three minutes. Boom! Out. And you will throw them out if they object to it. You, sir, owe Mr. Davis an apology. But we all know you're not going to do that.
 I come here today to put into the record our displeasure of your behavior and look forward to January 17th when the door closes on the terror reign of Charlie the Hail Trumpy. I have included a picture of Michelle so you can recognize her. May she rest in peace. And by the way, congratulations on your 70%. That was the last figure that I saw.
 People in Portland have voted you back in. And that's kind of cool. Activists, Mr. Mayor, are not perfect. We make mistakes. We get egg on our faces. You need to have a little more patience in the coming months because we have to do something about some of these problems. And activists are going to come and say things like I just said that you don't like.
 And that's the name of the game. Democracy is messy, gentlemen and lady. It is not orderly. Never will be. Thank God. Thank you very much. Okay, let's move to the consent calendar. And as I said, I think one item called nothing else, right? So let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, time's certain. Item 512. Approval of the fiscal year 2016-17 budget for the City of Portland. Aye.
 Okay, here comes Andrew and Jeremy. Do I need to reconvene us as the Budget Committee? Okay, so I am reconvening the City Council as the Budget Committee. No need to recall the role because I think it was called earlier and we're all, let the record show, we're all still here.
 I'm now opening a hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. This hearing is being held by the City Council of Portland, Oregon, in compliance with the provisions of the State Revenue Sharing Regulations, RS-221.770. It is to allow citizens to comment on the possible use of these funds in conjunction with the annual budget process.
 As proposed for council adoption, the fiscal year 2016-17 budget anticipates receipts totaling $16,008,397 from state revenue sharing. As has been the case in prior years, it is proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support fire prevention and police patrol services. Is there anyone here who wishes to be heard on the subject of state revenue sharing? Anyone signed up on that? We'll be at first if we did. Thank you.
 Thank you. It's the final vote on the transportation. 51.2. Congratulations. No one signed up for the revenue sharing. Okay. Anyone want to speak on state revenue sharing? If not, then I will close the hearing on possible uses of state revenue sharing. Unless there are any council comments on that subject, then I'll close that portion of the hearing.
 now it's time to take up the regular budget and actually mayor if you wouldn't mind if i just take a minute to run through the process because it can get a little bit um byzantine so uh i just want to make sure everyone knows what we're voting on when because there are going to be multiple steps that we go through over the next uh over the next little while
 So what is going to happen first? And so, again, the entire process here is to get to an approved budget. And you are acting as the budget committee and getting to an approved budget under local budget law, making any amendments to it, et cetera.
 There is a budget, a proposed budget, as filed, and that was filed a little bit more than a week ago. And that is a budget that includes some new revenue. And the very first thing we're going to do is we're going to need a motion, a first and a second to consider changes to the proposed budget as filed. That doesn't need a vote. It will just be a motion. After that, my understanding is we'll be moving forward with a substitute, which is a package that does not include new revenue.
 We will need a motion and then a vote on that substitute at that time. Andrew, don't we make a motion to bring the substitute first and then make the adjustments? We don't. We've actually walked through this with the city attorney. You're the expert. And it is a little bit different than sort of normal council process. Okay.
 I will then describe very briefly, although we had a work session on it, so I won't take much time on that in terms of that package. At that point, we'll take up individual amendments to the substitute because that's what the amendments are based off of at this time. Each amendment will need a first and a second, although we can do a first and a second for the whole package of amendments that you have in front of you and then take individual votes on them. Okay.
 After you've talked about all the amendments, after you voted on the amendments, you will then have a motion and a vote to improve the entire package of budget adjustments, including the amendments. That is not the final vote on the approved budget, but what that is essentially saying is the substitute, all of the amendments, the entire package in front of you, there's a vote to essentially approve that for discussion.
 At that point, we'll take public testimony. And the reason we go through all that is so the public knows what they're voting on, right? So they know that they'll be voting on a substitute, they'll be voting on any amendments you've discussed, and they can testify about any of those things. And then after public testimony, then we approve the entire budget. That's the final step in today's process before the tax levies. So let me restate that both from my understanding and make sure we all have it, which is the first motion is to essentially open the window for amendments, right? Yes.
 To move to amend, right? The very first, actually, the very first motion is for the Budget Committee to officially put on the table the proposed budget as filed. Okay. Because it has been filed. Okay. It's been discussed, but now we need to put that. So we need a motion. You move your budget. Okay, so I'll move the budget, the approved budget as filed. Second. Okay. Now then I'll take a motion, right, for the consideration of a substitute. I'll move the substitute. Second. Second.
 then we should take a vote on that vote on motion and then start working on amendments to the substitute right exactly Okay, so unless there's further discussion. Let's take a vote on the motion for a substitute, please hi, I know that I I'm gonna support this motion. Although there are still major unfunded responsibilities for the city of Portland in the substitute. I appreciate that there's a great deal in this budget and
 that I proposed and that the council supports and I appreciate that support and I think there are items that we're going to discuss in the upcoming discussion about further amendments that will further improve this budget and
 but there are some big problems in our city that remain to be addressed and they will not in my opinion be addressed without new revenue one is that we do not have enough police officers and we are having less of them as the weeks go by and that's because the situation for hiring police officers has changed in a post-ferguson era
 In an economy in which people who have the skills to be a police officer have many choices about the work they can do, it's gotten harder for municipalities to hire police officers. And that's why there are 250 vacancies for police officers across the state of Oregon, 64 of them here.
 We will next week, I believe, have another wonderful ceremony where we hire three more police officers. And I enjoy each and every one of those. And I'm so amazed and impressed by the caliber of the people that we're hiring into the Portland Police Bureau, the diverse backgrounds they bring, the life experience they bring. They're wonderful. The trouble is the people are retiring faster than those folks are being recruited. And we need to redouble our recruitment effort. We need to pay...
 signing bonuses and raise our starting salary all those things are proposed in this budget and some of them are funded and I'd again appreciate that very much but we have much more work to do on this subject and this problem is going to get more serious over time summer is coming and with it the problems of summer that have already begun a wave of gang violence that's worse than we've ever seen and serious issues on the street that require sensitive handling by police officers
 So the need to deal with that problem will remain after the vote on this budget. And again, I support the balance of this budget. It's a good budget. It does a lot of good things for Portland. It continues our commitment to housing. It takes good care of city employees who need to be respected and supported and paid a living wage.
 It addresses more gang outreach workers for that problem of gang violence. It does a lot of good things, but what it doesn't do is make sure that we reverse the decline of the workforce in the Portland Police Bureau.
 The other thing it doesn't do is create a new way for dealing with people who are homeless on our streets other than either ignoring the problem or arresting them. And the need for a diversion program is real. I understand that that is still formative and that there's work to do, but we need to commit to and fund that work.
 And then there's some capital projects that got cut in the process that I regret seeing cut. I think the Better NATO project is a wonderful innovation. And if you look at how NATO is operating today and the busy park that we have and all the new hotels and other construction downtown that will crowd the waterfront with more pedestrians –
 and more bicycles. The need to get it right with Waterfront Park is becoming more acute. Do we have to do that this summer? No, but it would be a good time to start since we've already created the project and have it operating today. So there's some holes in this budget that I regret we haven't filled, but the rest of it is good work, and I appreciate the good work that's been done. And again, we'll say this a couple of times today to you, Andrew, and your team, but your staff has served us very well. I appreciate it very much. Aye.
 Thank you, Mayor. Okay. So I will just very briefly, we had a budget committee meeting on Monday, May 16th, and went over this substitute in detail. So just to recap the very high level in terms of the general fund changes, what the substitute does is it invests $13.8 million of ongoing resources and in a variety of programs. And, again, those were discussed and have been available on the website. Okay.
 over the last couple of days, and that is from $9.2 million of surplus, as well as $4.8 million of bureau reductions. On the one-time side, the budget invests just under $20 million of one-time resources. $16.4 million of that is from one-time projected surplus going into 16-17, $1.7 million of excess Bancroft bond funds, and a $1.7 million carryover of 15-16 contingency.
 Okay. Questions for Andrew before we begin with further amendments? Mayor, so we all have a cheat sheet, right, with the amendments. Is it your intention to have Andrew just walk us through each one, we'll see if there's a first and a second, and then debate them and vote on them? Exactly. Okay. Okay. Go ahead.
 With that then, moving on to the amendment process again, you do have this list in front of you of amendments, so I guess you want me to go ahead and describe? Yeah, so we can take them as motions. I'll move Amendment No. 1, which increases funding in the Portland Police Bureau for a body camera program. Second. Okay. Andrew, you want to describe that? Yeah. What this does is it allocates –
 $1,685,929 of ongoing general fund resources to the police bureau to support a body camera program. But because those resources won't be needed as the program ramps up immediately, it does have a one-time offset and a corresponding reduction in 2016-17 of one-time resources. Okay.
 The funding source for this ad is a reduction in the ongoing general fund capital set-aside established in the proposed budget. So you may recall there was $2 million of money set aside in future years for capital projects. This would reduce that. There was $2 million set aside. This reduces it by just under $1.7 million and dedicates that to body camera costs.
 great questions about this item that we're going to consider the budget notes separately right on this side we'll just take a vote on each of these to add them to the to the substitute and then we'll take testimony on all of the above okay so any further discussion before we do that we're going to vote now vote now on each one as we go and then then allow people to testify and obviously we can we can change our mind and remove items or adjust items based on what we hear but we need to get them all added to the substitute ordinances in front of us right so um
 Maybe it's just me, but I really don't understand this budget note and what it's doing in terms of – This isn't a budget note. This is actually an amendment. Okay. I don't understand this amendment and what it's doing or attempting to do in terms of moving money around the body cameras. Yeah, let me try and walk through. So what the mayor included in his proposed budget, he set aside $2 million of ongoing funds –
 in that would be available in future years for capital projects of any kind. He used those in the first year for specific one-time, and they weren't linked to specific things, but used those one-time resources to balance some of the one-time expenses.
 But, again, by putting the ongoing in there, assuming there were no changes in 17, 18, and beyond, council would have $2 million to invest in capital projects, and we would need to discuss what the allocation process for that is. It was not allocated anything specific after the first year.
 What this amendment does is it takes most of that, 1.7 million of the 2 million, and it says we're going to dedicate that to police body cameras and the ongoing costs related to that program. Two million in fiscal 17-18? Correct. Yeah. And so the police bureau already has one-time resources to purchase the cameras, to deal with some of the startup costs. They can tap into some of their –
 asset forfeiture funds in 16-17, but the ongoing cost of running a body camera program, which can be significant, and other jurisdictions have found that as they've implemented these, this would make sure funds are available in those future years for the records management costs, the staffing costs, et cetera. Andrew, just based on the testimony we had from the Bureau, what they said, I think I recall the testimony was that
 They have to go through a process of developing the policy. They have to go through a policy of a process of procurement, and that is effectively why the money doesn't get tapped until the next fiscal year. Is that correct? That's right. Yeah. And we're going to discuss that in the next motion under the budget note, correct? Correct. Okay. All right. So does that make more sense? It took me a while, too, so I appreciate that. Thank you. Any other questions about this before we take a vote on that motion? Okay. Roll call on that motion, please.
 I'm going to support the mayor's amendment. And, frankly, this is a tough call because the mayor, I think, correctly put $2 million aside for a capital set-aside. And that reflects the mayor's values and this council values of showing some
 discipline but this is a community priority and there is available money and it doesn't provide doesn't require an offset to other things the council wants to fund so i'm going to support this aye saltzman well i will support this too but i will express my uh concerns that i i really don't feel we have our act together on body cameras both in terms of how we're going to pay for it in the long term and getting the policy right and getting this uh the necessary labor uh
 agreement negotiated that will allow body cameras to be used by our sworn officers. I will support this, but I express strong misgivings. We still don't have our act together on this. Aye. Novick? I think that having body cameras is a very good idea. I think that having a capital set-aside is a very good idea. I also think that we're going to have an ongoing discussion about the resource needs of the police bureau that go beyond body cameras. And
 In the future, I might feel that it's appropriate to make exactly this change, but for right now, I'd like to postpone the discussion of funding body cameras until we have a broader discussion about funding for police needs, and I don't want to rush to eliminate this idea, which I thought was a very good idea of having a $2 million capital set aside. No. Thanks.
 has been discussed that this money is not going right out the door and so and I liked I need to remind the council that we haven't actually made the policy decision to move forward on body cams yet when we had the hearing on it there was community concern representative Lou Frederick and got some changes passed at the state level to
 allay some of those concerns. So I've got a couple of amendments to the next item, which is the budget note, to reflect that. I share Commissioner Consultant's concern that we need to do the process in the right order, and I think the next step is probably to have a council hearing on the body cams. That hearing would be moot if we don't have any money set aside to do it.
 And so that's why I think we should set this aside. I also agree with you, Commissioner Novick, that should we decide not to do this, that putting it back into capital set aside would be the right approach. So this, I believe, is a placeholder. Hi. Nails. I've known that we needed body cameras in Portland since my second month on the job when I got one of those calls in the middle of the night about an officer-involved shooting.
 And it was an incident that occurred in the parking lot of Portland Adventist Hospital in which a man had forced his way out of the hospital by breaking a telephone and making it appear that he had a gun tucked in the waistband of his pants. Again, in the middle of the night, that was the information our officers had. The man was in the parking lot, was confronted by our officers at some distance, and ran toward them, cursing them and counting down.
 We know this because a young couple who'd been quickly ushered into their apartment by the Portland Police Bureau held their phone up over the windowsill and recorded the incident. Once that recording was provided to the community, it illustrated that our officers had acted improperly in what was obviously still a very unfortunate, tragic situation. But what body cameras do is keep the truth safe.
 And they keep the truth safe for police officers, and they keep the truth safe for the community. And that's why they're a good idea. No, please, if you interrupt again, you will be asked to leave. So please, you do not get to interrupt the council. Ms. Alinsky, this is your last warning.
 so body cameras keep the truth safe for everybody and that's a good thing exactly how we'll do that of course requires deliberation by the council and more work by the police bureau one of the themes in this budget that i'm fervent about and that i'm proud of is that we need to keep our commitments we need to keep our commitments to our firefighters who we said we would put back on the payroll after the grant ran out we need to keep our commitments to our parks employees that have been told by the state that they should be paid more and we agree
 We need to keep those commitments. And one of the commitments we've made really is to ourselves and to the legislature that we asked for this authority, and now we expect to use it. So I'm glad we asked for the legislative authority. I'm glad, as Commissioner Fritz, I think, accurately stated, we won't do it if we don't have the money in the budget for it. There are other things to do first, but without the money, it's a moot point. So I appreciate this amendment very much. Thank you. Aye.
 Okay, motion. I'll make the next motion, which is to amend Attachment B to add a revised, or is this a revised budget note or a new budget note? This is a new budget note. A new budget note on body cameras. Why don't you read the note for us, and then we can discuss it. I think we'll need a second. Sorry. Yes, we do. Yeah, so this is a new budget note. Now I will go ahead and read it. Portland Police Bureau Body Camera Program.
 The FY 2016-17 budget includes resources for supporting a body camera program at the Portland Police Bureau. The Bureau is directed to proceed with the request for proposal process. Implementation of this program is anticipated to occur within the next three years, and funding for the implementation will come from the current one-time general fund resources set aside in the Bureau's budget. Any resources available in the asset forfeiture fund and any resources now available in the Bureau's ongoing budget can be repurposed for implementation.
 The Bureau will use an outside program evaluator to document and provide evaluation post-implementation to assess the impacts and outcomes of the investment in body cameras. If I might offer a couple of friendly amendments, I would suggest that we delete the sentence the Bureau is directed to proceed with the request for proposal process, unless that also includes coming back to counsel with that.
 Well, they have to come back to council with the purchase order. So they get to go out. I think the intent of this, and I don't know if the police bureau is here or not, but the budget office probably answered this as well. The intent of this is to say we have funding for equipment. Tell us what you will sell us and for how much, and then pick what the bureau believes is the appropriate amount.
 technology vendor and then come to us with a proposed contract, right? So I might suggest one further step, which I think the community would appreciate, which is for it to have the hearing to send them off to do that, because we did hear a number of concerns about how would these cameras be used, when would they be on, what would be the process, and the way we left it at council last time was we hadn't made the decision to go ahead and put the RFP out.
 Okay. No, I'm happy to have a – we should have a public hearing when we do that. No quarrel about that. Of course, the Bureau did have a whole series of community meetings about body cameras that led to their proposed policy. Yeah, I just think – Yeah. So if we could just either delete that sentence or just –
 have the shared understanding that there's going to be a hearing in the near future. I don't think we need to change that. You've got my commitment that when we go to that, we'll get to that point of the RFI or RFP, we'll have the Bureau come make a presentation in public here. Thank you. That's great. And then at the end, this is a suggestion from the Portland Business Alliance. I would suggest we add the sentence, the Bureau will also seek federal and other grants for one-time and ongoing costs of the body camera program.
 The Portland Business Alliance suggested that there might be grants out there that would assist with this, and certainly our viewers are really good at going to get grants. As the expression goes, hope is not a strategy, but it doesn't hurt to ask. So I think we have asked and answered the question, but we can certainly put that in there. I'll read it again. The Bureau will also seek federal and other grants for one time and ongoing costs of the body camera program. Okay, so Commissioner Fritz moves that amendment, and I'll second it.
 any discussion about first her amendment to this I guess I have no problem with the amendment I would like to add an additional amendment I guess I want to talk about out loud first make sure I'm okay we're making sense act on hers first okay so further discussion about Commissioner Fritz's amendment roll call on that amendment please
 Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hale? Aye. OK. Yeah. Well, my concern is, as we're talking about purchasing equipment sometime in the next three years and possibly locking that in now, so I guess I'm wondering two things. One, this is very complicated technology. It's also a rapidly changing technological environment. So I'm a little concerned that we're going to commit to something and then three years later there could be a whole new generation of body cameras to do that.
 data recording and all that, and we're locked into yesterday's technology. So I think I would like to have, and I would propose this as a motion, I would like to have the Technology Oversight Committee oversee the development of this RFP as well as the implementation of it. I think it makes sense. Those are people that we all appointed to do this work, and this is a big, complicated project. It's like software. Wouldn't they do that anyway?
 Would that be part of the discussion at council when we come back to the RFP? I'd like to have the benefit of the Technology Oversight Committee's two cents on the RFP when it comes to council. That's not what they would do ordinarily. What they would ordinarily do is once a project was launched, then they'd monitor it, right? But they don't normally have a role in the front end. Well, they do. The whole goal of the Technology Oversight Committee is to get them up front in the decision-making, including developments.
 There's a process for the TOC to consider and accept technology projects to oversee, but I think Council expressing that that's something you want them to do would be important. Yeah, I don't have a problem with that. You want to put that in motion? Yeah, so my amendment would be the Technology Oversight Committee will oversee the development of the RFP as well as the implementation of any technology system. Second. Further discussion on Commissioner Salson's motion? Roll call, please. Fish? I think that's a good idea. Aye. Aye.
 saltzman hi novick hi chris thank you yes it is i okay uh further discussion of the now amended budget note uh under item two so then let's please vote to accept that amendment as further amendment hi saltzman no no
 fritz aye ayles aye okay uh number three uh i'll move to increase funding in special appropriations for the rosewood community center second
 So this one was a little bit confusing, I think, in the budget process, and that is there was funding for this program in the police bureau budget in previous years that funded one position. This actually funds another. The rationale here is twofold. One, there are places in the city where we don't have a community center like Lenton,
 where we provide a small amount of general fund support for a community center operated by a nonprofit. Same thing in that case, in an area where we don't have a facility. Secondly, the Rosewood Community Center in particular is literally on the front lines in our effort
 to try to stem gang violence. Unfortunately, we had an incident not long ago in which four young people were shot and wounded inside the community center, I think highlighting how serious the situation is there and the need. Meanwhile, the Multnomah County has opened a family homeless shelter basically just across the street. So this particular part of Portland, I think, requires some TLC on the city's part and a modest investment to continue the work of the Rosewood Community Center, I think, is appropriate.
 I totally support this, Mayor, and as you say, it's very similar to the Far Northwest Linton Community Center. This is the Far Southeast Community Center. I might make a couple of suggestions. One is that in the motion as printed, it suggested that the funding source would be coming from the youth basketball program. I believe you and I agree that it should come from contingency. It should be coming from contingency, yeah. So I would suggest that we just –
 keep just the first sentence, allocate $55,000 of ongoing general fund resources to special appropriations for the support of the community center from contingency? Yeah, I'll second your motion. Any further discussion of Commissioner Fritz's motion that just clarifies that this funding, if it's approved, would come from contingency, not from a reduction elsewhere? And I'd like a clarification as to whether we want to stay
 to special appropriations or immediately allocate it to Portland Parks and Rec to manage the I would actually, if you're comfortable with it, I would actually prefer that this funding be in the Parks Bureau budget just as the Linton funding is. Yes, I think that makes more sense. It'll be more secure and make sure we don't get a miss. So I'll second that further amendment as well, that instead of special appropriations, it's to the Parks Bureau for support of the Rosewood Community Center and end the statement there.
 So a vote on Commissioner Fritz's amendment first. Two amendments, that is, that it's general fund support, not reduction elsewhere. And secondly, that it's going to be placed in the Parks Bureau, not special appropriations. Can I ask the Budget Office a question first? Sure.
 There are several proposals to reduce general fund contingency. There's this, there's motion 4 for 98,000, there's motion 5 for 75,000, there's motion 9 for 84,000. And I kind of like a temperature check from you as to how much reduction overall in contingency do you think is safe and at what point do you start getting really queasy and are you queasy already? MR.
 Right now, in the substitute, there is $2.3 million of general fund contingency ongoing to start. The amendments on the table prior to this one would have reduced that by about $262,000. So adding this additional $50,000 will reduce it by about $310,000. So that will take just over $2 million.
 As we've discussed in prior years, there is no right or wrong number for contingency. The larger the contingency, the easier it is to deal with unexpected events during the year. On the other hand, the larger the contingency, the more likely we are to spend it on non-emergency actions throughout the year. So $2 million is consistent with where we have been in the past. As a budget person, I always like that number to be higher, but it's certainly consistent with past years. Okay.
 So you could live with us past – I mean, I was trying to figure out, do we need to pick and choose in order to be responsible? You're saying that you could live at least with all of these being passed if you think they're good ideas. I think $2 million is a fine number. If we have unexpected costs of more than that, then I'll be back during the year to ask for cuts from your bureaus. Well, we'll just have to make sure there are no unexpected costs. Right. Very diplomatically answered, by the way. Thank you.
 all right further discussion let's take a let's take a vote please so i'm sorry go ahead well i thought at our monday work session we were counseled that we should come in with amendments and a way to pay for them and i guess i'm a little philosophically concerned that we're sort of looking for a way to pay from them by drawing down a contingency as opposed to making a hard choice here which is a choice between uh youth basketball and the rosewood initiative so uh that's going to be uh guiding my my vote on a lot of these
 Okay. Okay. Good. Noted. Thank you. Okay. Let's take a vote, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Reitz? Aye. Ailes? Aye. Okay. I'll move number four, which is to increase funding for Portland Parks and Recreation for Sheriff Patrol Services at the River Place Marina. Okay.
 I'll let you read it and then explain. Sure, yeah. So what this does is it allocates $98,000 of one-time general fund resources to the Parks Bureau for Sheriff Patrol Services at River Place Marina. The funding source for the ad will be a one-time reduction to general fund contingency and an immense attachment to BNC as necessary. This is something that Parks Bureau got funding, I believe, in the fall bump of this year.
 Right. And this would continue that, again, on a one-time basis into 2016-17. Yeah, and just a small confession on my part. I and my staff spent three months working on this budget, line item by line item, and this one was just a glitch or an error, really, on my part or our part that –
 we had failed to carry that over from where it was lodged before in the bump to the general fund annual budget, but there was never an intention to stop doing this, or at least not on my part. So I had intended to propose the mayor's proposed budget with this funding in it, and it just wasn't there because we missed it.
 nothing more complicated than that it was just a glitch or mistake both the mayor and I thank the community for bringing this to our attention not once but probably six times don't forget us and we had until that point so may I call I move the motion roll call please hi hi no Vic hi hi
 Okay. Motion number five is to increase funding for the Portland Development Commission for the B Corp program. Is there a second to that? Second. Okay. You want to explain that one? Yeah. So this allocates $75,000 of one-time general fund resources to PDC for support of the benefit corporation program. And the funding source will, again, be one-time reduction to general fund contingency and an immensely attached fund. Mayor, I have a question on this. And just, by the way, a little quirk of fate. I was in Denver recently at a best practice trip that Randy Miller hosted in.
 had a chance to go to boulder for the evening and at at the e-town uh town hall there was a reception for the national b corp program and the woman who was in charge of it so the woman who hosted we hosted in portland when b corp came here and was um it was a big turnout and it's obviously a big movement the question i have for you mayor is um is there an alternate way to fund this using
 PDC resources, and if not, what's the argument for adding the general fund piece? Well, so we, I think the answer to the PDC resources is unfortunately not, because frankly if that would be possible, that would probably be my first choice rather than general fund as well. So we did this. We allocated $75,000 to start this project during the fall bomb.
 Sorry, the spring bomb. So the work got started. Not all the money has been spent yet, but the work got started. And then there was a proposal to expand the effort, also proposed for general fund funding within PDC's budget, which is not included at this point in the substitute. Okay.
 This is really a rescission. Again, it's not the work has just begun. But this was startup funds for the effort. To me, it still makes sense to start even if the full effort is going to wait at least another year to ramp up. But it's a
 really a strategic choice for the council. Do we want to try to expand the support for and engagement of and facilitation of people becoming B Corps in Portland? If we want to do that, this is the place to start. There's staff working on this. And if not, it can...
 all be left aside safely. So it's really a judgment call about do we want to be that place? Do we want to be a city that's really taking an active, supportive role in the development of B Corps?
 My understanding is that this one was a carryover from a previous allocation and that you had proposed a $250,000 ongoing allocation for B Corp. It was $350,000. $350,000, a lot of ongoing money, which is not in the substitute. So what's the purpose of continuing the $75,000 if we're not doing the large ongoing? Josh, do you want to come? Rachel, do you want to come describe what's going to happen if we do or do not include the $75,000? Hi, Rachel Wiggins, Mayor's Office.
 There's a lot of flexibility with the $75,000. It could be used to develop outside funds and develop a larger best-for program if that's not something the council wants to do. $75,000 can incorporate language and training into the current work that PDC is doing to help educate and educate.
 Those businesses who are already coming to PDC potentially become B Corps. The larger program involves a lot of outreach, education, and training to many more Portland businesses. I think the larger program involves staff, too. Correct. Right. But potentially this $75,000 could be used for outreach, for instance, to the Portland Business Alliance and others.
 Venture Portland and others to help them establish a B Corp program? Absolutely. Part of the conversation with PDC was leveraging the contracts we already have with Venture Portland and other business associations on the technical assistance work that they're doing and adding on B Corps to that. Yes. So this to me then makes sense that government can't do it all, government shouldn't do it all, but giving a little
 keeping this money in the budget to stimulate that process and then hopefully passing it off to community partners is perhaps the way to go. Absolutely.
 I'm sympathetic to this, but also in your opening remarks, you sort of allude that the $75,000 could turn into sort of a lobbying effort on the council to do a larger general fund ongoing of $275,000. So can you assure me we're not just going to be putting money at people that are going to just turn around and start lobbying us for more money? We're not funding any positions with it.
 I know, but. I think if the council indicates that they do not want to add any additional funding in further years, then I can assure you that we won't come back with more funding. Well, I'm okay with the one-time funding. I just don't want it to be, you know, be looking in the mirror and find it's all directed at lobbying us to create a bigger ongoing program. I think. It's fine to help businesses form B-Cores. That's great.
 I don't want to see it transcend into a lobbying effort in city council. Right. I think the hope is to leverage outside dollars and to work with the state. The governor has expressed interest in creating a Best for Oregon program, so not having to rely on city dollars. Rachel, I would be – because I think the B Corp movement is important to our local economy and our state economy, if this is approved, I would love to get –
 before the next budget cycle, sort of an update from PDC on what their efforts are. If we could just make a friendly amendment, they will get a report on where we are with B Corp, how this money has been used, and what the leverage turned out to be. Absolutely. A future council may decide to make additional investments. Absolutely. May I move the motion? Okay. Thank you, Rich. Thank you. Any further discussion? Okay. Let's take a vote, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 As you know, I have an interest in promoting corporate social responsibility. That's why we have a socially responsible investment committee, and I see this as consistent with that commitment, and I'm pleased to vote aye.
 Ritz. Aye. Hale. Aye. Can I just amend my comment by saying that I was on the fence until Rachel made such a persuasive case? Rachel's worked hard on this, so that's a nice thing to give her that affirmation. She has worked hard on it. Okay. So then I'll move to motion number six. I move to update attachment B to amend the data center relocation budget note, and I'll let Andrew read the revision. Okay.
 Did we get a second? Second. Oh, just got a second. Thank you. So, yeah, this is an amendment to an existing budget note. The original budget note, and it discusses the data center, the substitute package funds the data center relocation at $623,000. The overall cost, the general fund cost of the data center relocation is about $2.7 million more than that.
 And we've discussed this as we've gone through the process, but this was what was being able to allocate now. OMF is concerned about moving forward with this without full funding. And so, the original budget note essentially directed them to come back in the fall bump with a request. This budget note amends that, and I'll go ahead and read it. So, in the 2016-17 adopted budget, Council allocated funding for the first year cost of the data center relocation project.
 Council directs the City Budget Office to add $2.1 million of one-time general fund resources to the current appropriation level targets.
 of general fund bureaus in fiscal year 2017-18 and $596,024 of one-time resources in FY 2018-19. These one-time resources are dedicated to fund the remaining general fund share of costs to finish the data center relocation project. And essentially what this does is it allocates out the general fund to the general fund bureaus that will pay the costs so that when OMF bills them, they are held harmless for this. But it does in fact allocate 2017-18 and 18-19 one-time dollars to finish the data center project.
 I thought the total cost of the data relocation was $4 million. The total cost, I think, is closer to $10 million. This is just the general fund portion, and I believe in working with OMF, it is about $3.3 million in total. You're saying $10 million total for the data center relocation? Look back to CloudIO. That's a higher number than I thought. And maybe OMF as well, if they would like to add anything. Okay, thank you.
 There we go. Claudio. Claudio Camposano, City Budget Office. Yeah, the total data center relocation is 9.7, anticipated to be $9.7 million over three years. $3.3 million of that is the general fund portion, including the general fund portion of the public share. Okay.
 So the other 7.6 or 6.6 comes from? From non-general fund bureaus, primarily water and BES. They are the big users of the data center. Kayenta and all of their data needs are housed at the data center. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions about this change to the budget note? I move the motion. Okay. Let's take a vote, please, on that. Yes. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. And Commissioner Fish, do you want to make motion 7? Yes, thank you. I move motion number 7. Second. Second.
 Colleagues, this is the original budget note as modified just to put a placeholder dollar amount, and at Commissioner Fritz and the Mayor's suggestion, explicitly linking our funding to the approval of a local improvement district, which Mr. Russell this morning agreed with that formulation, so I move the motion. Okay. Any further discussion? Then let's vote, please, on that.
 um commissioner fritz thank you for including this uh halpern in your budget and your and your and your original budget documents um this is one of the master works in america it's one of the greatest um public uh works in in an urban area and it's we've allowed it to um fall into disrepair and we have a unique opportunity
 to leverage the generosity of the private sector to restore it to its former glory for the benefit of all portlanders and i wholeheartedly support this uh motion hi folksman hi novick um i think it's tremendous that we're going to have this public private partnership to restore the helper mountains and i think it's appropriate for the city to make this commitment aye
 well thank you commissioner fish for your detail oriented amendments that the mayor and i support because i assume that they support what a time we get to the vote um i'll note for the
 folks at home that this is not needed immediately, that it is contingent on the local improvement district being formed, and that's why we're putting it over to next year, fiscal year, and instead are putting $1.5 million into paving, which is a very clear and present urgent need. And thanks again to the voters for apparently passing the gas tax and Commissioner Novick for leading that effort. Thank you.
 Anything else? Commissioner Novick is fond of quoting rock lyrics. Even though he's more fond of baseball than I am, I'm fond of quoting Yogi Berra. And because the orange line has a stop on the Halpern sequence or just –
 south of the Halpern Sequence. Sometimes they get off at that stop and walk down the sequence on the way to City Hall. And Yogi Berra said you can observe a lot just by watching. And if you look at the condition of the Halpern Sequence, if you look at the condition of those parks, you realize that there's a big reinvestment needed. And yet, even with systems of all-in-charge dollars and even with a successful passage of a bond measure, there's not enough money in the system
 to restore a great park system to the condition that it should be. And so here we have an offer of real serious help from private property owners who are going to tax themselves to fix up the neighborhood park. Not every property owner can do that, particularly in lower value parts of the city with people who are just struggling to get by in their neighborhood. But when you have wealthy owners of big buildings that are ready to tax themselves, I say bravo and vote aye. Thank you.
 Okay. Commissioner Fritz, would you like to take motion 8, please? Thank you, Mayor. I move to increase funding in Portland Parks and Recreation for two additional ranger positions to service the east side. Second. Thank you.
 Okay, discussion. Thank you. This is to allocate $150,000 of ongoing general fund resources to Portland Parks and Recreation's general fund for two additional ranger positions to service the east side, and actually this is the east precinct, including North Portland as well. The funding source for this ad will be $150,000 reduction to ongoing general fund support of the Portland Parks and Recreation Saturday Youth Basketball Program, and it's amended in attachments B and C.
 So we had discussion at the work session about the youth basketball program. There's going to need to be a lot of ongoing discussions with the Portland Public Schools and with the TriMet on various funding aspects in upcoming budgets. And so allocating, again, this funding to the clear and present need for the rain –
 dedicated rangers reminding everybody that we have six dedicated rangers on the west side and zero on the east side this would provide the funding for that I'm concerned about the source so that is if we reduce the youth basketball program by this amount what happens well this is the first time that we've actually received an invoice from Portland Public Schools for janitorial services for the youth basketball program it came kind of as a surprise without certainly in contact to me
 So I want to have that discussion with the school board and Superintendent Smith that we will figure that out. But considering the amount of testimony we got about the inequity of the 900 and...
 67,000 that we're allocating to bus passes for Portland Public Schools students and not for Park Rose or David Douglas. It seems to me that, again, with your commitment, Mayor, to keeping the school resource officers funded as well, that the city is being very generous to the school district, and it would be helpful if they could cut us a break for one more year and we can figure it out. Well, um...
 Okay, again, my question is, when will the other shoe drop on this? If it does, that's what I'm worried about. So is this summer basketball or school year basketball? School year basketball. It's the winter season. So if they were to say, sorry, we can't assist you anymore, we would find that out by September, right? Yes. So I guess...
 with that understanding. I mean, I would be interested in changing the source of this to contingency instead of making the reduction, even though, again, we were all encouraged to do that, given that there's a sufficient amount in contingency. I'd prefer that.
 I'm happy to say. I'll make that motion and see if there's council support for that. But the understanding, that doesn't mean we're automatically ready to write a check for $150,000 to the school district. I think we'd still need to have that discussion and negotiation. But I don't want to be caught in a situation of having this program stop because we haven't funded it, just like I don't want to be in a situation of not starting body cameras because we haven't started it. Yeah. Funded it. That's typically very fiscally responsible, Mayor, and I'd be happy to accept that as a friendly amendment. All right. We'll see if that passes with a friendly amendment. Okay.
 Further discussion? So we'll take a vote now on Motion 8 as amended to take the funding from contingency instead of from the youth basketball program. Yes. This is a close call for me, but I'd rather stick with the existing language because the commissioner in charge can still come back in the fall bump for general fund contingency if the negotiations with the school district are unsuccessful. No. Saltzman.
 Well, this also speaks to the concern I raised earlier about we're slowly bleeding our contingency drip by drip. I feel this was a responsible amendment. It proposed funding park rangers, and it proposed a corresponding cut. So I support the original amendment and therefore vote no. Novick? I agree with my distinguished colleagues to my far left, no.
 Given that, shall we withdraw the motion and vote on the original? Well, we'll return to the original motion, please. So the friendly amendment sunk it, so let's try again, as stated. Yes. I'm enthusiastically supporting this amendment, and Commissioner Fritz, as you know, I have a
 very strong commitment to the ranger program, and I appreciate that you have continued to be a stalwart supporter. And through this action, you'll make sure that East Portland has more rangers to provide the vital services they do to our community. So thank you for bringing this forward. Hi. Saltman? Hi. Novick. Novick.
 Although I'm not sure for myself off the cuff whether I prefer funding for Rangers or the youth basketball program, I will defer to the commissioner in charge and vote aye.
 Thank you, colleagues. I really appreciate your acceptance of this amendment. It's a classic case of if at first you don't succeed, try, try again, because I think this is the third time we've made this request in the three budgets that I've been in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation. So thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor, for your support and for all the work that the rangers do. It's a great program. Hi. Nails. I'm going to support this for a couple of reasons. One, we need more resources.
 people on the street who can deal with the problems in parks and public spaces, and we're not going to have enough police officers. If I sound like Johnny One Note, so be it, because that's a problem. The problems in the North Park blocks last summer illustrated that. So having more park rangers from more parts of the city to deal with the livability issues that affect our parks is important. We just had a very large police presence in Colonel Summers Park over the last few weeks to beneficial effect, but we can't do that for very long in any one place with police officers.
 So having more rangers is a good idea, at least until we have more police officers.
 Secondly, on the subject of the youth basketball program, obviously anything that provides positive opportunity for youth and that we can possibly afford to pay for, I'm interested in paying for. I'm not interested in simply writing checks to school districts to pay for things that they should pay for. So that's why there's a negotiation here that needs to happen. But we have a big constructive partnership with Portland Public Schools that includes youth passes, includes the cooperative relationship with parks for joint use of facilities.
 And this is, frankly, a minor line item in a big relationship. So what I don't want to have happen is have us be playing chicken with the school district over $150,000. I don't think that will happen, but I'll leave it to the commissioner to negotiate a solution to who pays for the janitors and how. But obviously no one here, me especially, wants to see this program go away, and I know that's not your intention either. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, next motion, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. This motion is to increase funding in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement for an administrative assistant position. Further questions? Is there a second? Sorry. Okay.
 Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate that. This is for the director's office. This is the only director of a bureau of 50 plus people who doesn't have an administrative assistant. And given that Amalia Alicante-Mars not only works with the staff in her office, which are getting more and more plentiful with the
 Management of the Marijuana Program will continue to increase. Based on Denver, that program itself is going to continue to need more staff funded through permits. We also work with 95 neighborhood associations, six diversity and civic leadership partners, and
 tens of thousands of community volunteers. And even though it's challenging to be in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation, where we have several thousand workers, it's in some ways even more challenging to be guiding a community engagement system where we don't get to tell volunteers what to do. We have to encourage them. So providing this level of administrative assistance for the director is important.
 Very important to me. Andrew, how much of the remaining contingency is ongoing? That's a good question, Jeremy. This proposes to reduce the ongoing general fund contingency. About $2.2 million. Pardon me? About $2.2 million, assuming all the amendments are made. Is ongoing money or one time? Ongoing. Starting in 17-18, it would be back up to $2.2 million. Have we recently created staff positions in bureaus through general fund contingency? Have we ever done that?
 I have to go back and look. We have made ongoing reductions to contingency in the past. I'm not sure if they staffed positions or not, but there have been reductions to ongoing contingency in the past. Commissioner Fritz, if this position is so important, is there a reason why it wasn't included in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement's proposed budget? It was. It was requested as part of their budget. It was not included in the proposed budget. I move the motion. Okay. Vote, please. Aye. Saltzman? Well, again, going back to my earlier point about bleeding the contingency, I vote no. Aye.
 I share Commissioner Saltzman's concern, but I would also be concerned about opposing a colleague who just got 120% of the vote in the recent election. Aye. 120% of that? I hadn't seen the latest numbers. Thank you, sir. Aye. Thank you. Nails. Aye. Okay. Ten. Thank you, Mayor. This is a motion to amend Attachment B's budget note regarding the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and the Portland Housing Bureau's emergency outreach and engagement.
 I would move my substitute. Well, actually, I have... There are a couple of versions of this, so Commissioner Saltzman, do you want to describe yours? I wasn't quite done with my motion. Go ahead. Because Commissioner Fish has suggested an additional line. Actually, if somebody could second it just for the motion. I'll second your motion. So we can discuss it. Thank you. That's what I was pausing for.
 So this budget note says that the council directs the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to work with the Portland Housing Bureau and a home for everyone to develop materials and messaging for community engagement on housing prior to spending the $350,000 allocated in its budget for this purpose. We propose adding a final sentence, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement will return to council for approval of the outreach plan before funds are expended. Second.
 This is a further amendment of the budget now. Language in front of us. Okay. And then I would like to. Okay, so. Is this the appropriate time? Yes, Commissioner Saltzman. So I would move a substitute, which is Budget Note 9. And in essence, what this does is, as I talked about Budget Note 12, I think is what I meant to say. Yeah. In essence, there has been no consultation with the Housing Bureau about this plan of approach. And while I appreciate Commissioner Fritz's.
 raising these concerns i don't think it's appropriate to sort of prejudge the best way to accomplish the housing outreach that she desires is by placing this money in oni and so i'm proposing that we place the money in contingency we charge the office of neighborhood involvement portland housing bureau which has not been consulted on this and also the proposed joint office for homeless services which is also on the home for everyone which has also had no input on this that all these organizations
 work together no presupposition about where the money lands but come up with the best outreach plan possible bring that back to council by august 1st for us to consider it and then take the money put the 350 000 in the contingency until we sign off on that plan
 I think that is something that reflects a truly consensus approach to this and will result in, I think, the wisest expenditure of these dollars to achieve the much-needed outreach about housing in our city. Commissioner Fritz, can I move the substitute? Does someone second it? I think we have to vote on my motion.
 Procedurally? Well, I moved the substitute. She has an amendment. Is there a second to Dan's amendment? Second. Yes. We have an amendment to the motion. Let's take the amendment up first. Yeah. And then I have a follow-up question on the motion. Then we can take up the substitute. Okay. Before we vote, it's factually incorrect to say that the Housing Bureau has not been consulted.
 So the amendment is to move the funding to contingency. No, no. Sorry. Make sure I got it right. That's my amendment. That's what I'm saying. Commissioner Fritz's amendment. Substitute, sorry. The substitute is to move the funding to contingency. But the amendment that we're voting on is the highlighted language in the sheet that Commissioner Fritz just circulated that says the Office of Neighborhood Involvement will return to council for approval of the outreach plan before funds are expended. Well.
 Well, let's pull this apart because we have two separate questions before us. One is the language that Commissioner Fritz proposed. It's highlighted in yellow. It says that they'll come back. The second question, which Commissioner Salzman has raised, is no, don't do that. Put the money in contingency. So, Mayor, just in terms of procedure, we have a motion. We have an amendment to the motion. Let's take that up, and then let's –
 then the substitute tests whether her version or his version has majority support. Right. So the first thing we vote on is Commissioner Saltzman's. I believe we vote on the substitute first, Commissioner. Point of order. Substitute does take precedence, I believe, over an amendment. If you prefer my motion, you would vote no on the substitute. So we're voting on Commissioner Saltzman's substitute first. Let me just be clear. My support for your motion is contingent on it being amended. Yes, and I have. So we'll get to that. I'm just saying. Okay. Yes.
 We'll get to that. So right now we're voting on Commissioner Saltzman's substitute. Where's Robert's rules when we need Robert? We're doing it from memory, and I think we got it right so far. All right. So let's proceed with voting on Commissioner Saltzman's substitute, which is to require that the funds be allocated to contingency. Roll call. And actually, Mayor, just to clarify on that, what I heard, it's the substitute budget note.
 Commissioner Saltzman also has an amendment which would actually move the funds from ONI into contingency. That's right. But I think what you've put on the table right now is just the substitute budget note. Yeah, I think the substitute budget note on that motion, if it passes, I think that would flow logically. I thought we would put it in contingency by a separate motion. Okay. All right. So voting on Commissioner Saltzman's substitute. Roll call, please. Yes. This is a case where two colleagues –
 share a desire to do community outreach but have a difference of opinion about how we do it. And I guess normally my inclination would be to side with the Commissioner in charge that has the most immediate impact. On this one, however, with the amendment that Commissioner Fritz is prepared to accept to her motion, I'm comfortable putting Oney in the lead, subject to this matter coming to Council for discussion about the plan.
 I regret that we have to resolve this by a vote. My preference is that we should be able to work this out in a more collegial way, but this is subject to a vote and we have to choose. So I'm going to respectfully vote no on the substitute. Saltzman?
 Well, again, as the housing commissioner, I feel this is the best approach. Place it in contingency, charge the affected bureaus to come up with a plan that makes sense, not to prejudge that it's going to go to one bureau and then they have to, you know, call the shots. So I think if we're really interested in achieving the best outreach about what we're doing on housing, affordable housing development and homeless services, we should charge those bureaus to come back with a non-biased plan about how best to do the job
 and then let council approve it by August 1st out of contingency. So I vote aye. Novick. I also am distressed at being in a position of choosing between two colleagues who, as Commissioner Frisch said, ultimately share the same goals.
 I think it might ultimately make a great deal of sense to have ONI do this outreach, but I am concerned that the commissioner in charge of housing, and this is outreach about housing, thinks that we need to wait to make a decision as to how exactly the outreach will occur. It seems to me that Commissioner Saltzman's proposal allows for further communication between the two commissioners and their bureaus, and I don't see how that can be a bad thing. Aye. Great. Thank you.
 So thank you for this discussion. As the Commissioner in Charge of Community Engagement, this is about a community engagement process, and it's the community who's going to be doing the engagement. So there's only 5% of this $350,000 that is currently in the draft plan allocated to a .25 staff person within the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. The remainder would go to community organizations and community people telling each other what is the Housing Bureau's plan. So that's
 This is not about changing the Housing Bureau's plan. It's not about bureaus deciding what's going to happen. It's about the community deciding how can we help. We're wanting to support the experts in housing who have developed the Home for Everyone plan, who are doing wonderful work, and I'm sure will allocate the $29 million of additional funding that we're giving to housing. I'm sure that that will be done entirely appropriately. The community needs to know how to do it. And that's what this funding is for, and I appreciate that.
 Commissioner Fish's amendment, which does indeed clarify that we're going to come back to council to say how we're going to do it. No. Mills. Well, this debate, I think, illustrates both that passionate people want to do good work, and I appreciate everyone for that. Secondly, that you can't figure everything out in the budget. So what we're trying to do is look around a corner here and figure out how this is going to work best. Here's how I come down. Two things.
 One, thanks to your leadership, Commissioner Salzman, we are moving most of the homeless services staff out of the Housing Bureau and over to the county. So what business are we going to be in? We're going to mostly be in the housing development business.
 what business is ONI in working with neighborhoods on community problems. And there are people in my office who spend a great deal of time dealing with homelessness issues, and we work a lot with neighborhoods. So I think it's not an unreasonable idea for ONI to lead this work. I think it does have to come back to council. I think it does need to have involvement and coordination with the Housing Bureau, but I think Commissioner Fritz's proposal deserves a shot.
 hi no no no sorry no i'm voting no one voting for commissioner fritz's uh uh the mayor version of the before we take a vote on the amendment to commissioner fritz's motion i have a friendly amendment okay
 which is I do like the language as I read it in Dan's substitute about the proposed city-county joint office playing a role. I know it's implied, but could we make that explicit, that the housing bureau, the proposed city-county joint office for homeless services, and the home for everyone be consulted in that outreach? So to add in the budget note with it.
 the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to work with the Portland Housing Bureau and a Home for Everyone and the proposed City and County Joint Office for Homeless Services. I believe it's implied. I definitely accept that as a friendly amendment. Thank you. You'll accept that as a friendly amendment? Yes, thank you. I don't think we need to vote on that. And I will note, before everybody votes even, that it's partly because of public meetings law and public records law that we're not going to vote on that.
 having this discussion at Council, that we weren't able to come to consensus before them
 before this time, as soon as the budget office and the mayor convened as the budget committee, we were not allowed to talk even one-on-one directly elected official to elected official to try to figure stuff like this out. And so our staff have done a good job of trying to figure it out. But sometimes there is value in elected officials being able to talk to each other. What a concept. And then to bring it to the public with a little more consensus that we've been able to get. So I'm really looking forward to it if this –
 project moves forward being able to have one-on-one conversations not only with Commissioners Holtzman but also with all of the affected parties okay roll call on Commissioner Fritz's proposed budget note language as further amended well I appreciate the efforts as I said my concern is there's been no consultation with the Housing Bureau the Joint Office for homeless services and there's a prejudgment about which is the best Bureau to conduct necessary housing
 And I don't feel this idea is really fully baked, so I vote no. No vote? No. All right. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and Mayor, for your support. Aye. Aye. Okay. Let's move on then, Commissioner Salzman, to number 12. Sorry, no, not number 13. All right. I think that's the remaining item on the list of amendments. Yes.
 so commissioner saltzman you want to move that oh yeah so this is a a motion to increase funding for the bureau of planning and sustainability for the smart cities initiative you may want to second that okay go ahead dan please so it would allocate 140 000 one-time general fund resources to the bureau planning sustainability for position and related materials and services to develop a smart city strategy and open data policy for the city
 The funding source for this ad will be a reduction to one-time general fund currently allocated to our special appropriations grant. Are there discussions about this? Can I just make sure I understand this, Andrew? We have a million dollars in for special appropriations. That's right, a million dollars one time. And so by using that fund as an offset, in effect what we're doing is declaring that this is worthy of a special appropriation. Commissioner Saltzman, do you feel very strongly about this? Yes, I do, and I agree.
 There was a lot of support for this also in our comp plan as well. And Mayor Hales, as the commissioner in charge of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, what's your opinion on this? Yeah, I can't support this, even though I believe the Smart City initiative is a great idea. One, this was not prioritized by the Bureau. Two,
 is doing a great deal of work on this project, and they're doing great work, and other bureaus like planning need to support them, but I'm not sure if we need this funding to do that. And then third, Dan, I think it's going to be hard to make the new special appropriations process work, even at a million dollars, but the smaller we make that pool of money available for community grants, the harder that process will be to make work, so I'm very wary of reducing that, so that's my position on this.
 Further discussion? I just want to further note that we're going to be postponing the tree code update report vote later today, partly because we haven't yet reached agreement with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability as to whether they can do an ongoing project. Their concern that was raised to me is that they don't have the staff to be able to do the update to the tree code update.
 So that's a different issue that we'll address later, but that speaks to me about their capacity of being stretched in implementing all of the comp plan stuff that we're currently sending down their way and wanting to get done before the end of the year. Further discussion? Let's take a vote, please. Yes.
 I'm persuaded not to support this at this time, but if this is an eligible expenditure through the special appropriation process, then it ought to be considered and scored against all the other worthy applications. No. Holtzman. Well, I think it's important for the city to keep pace with change, and open data policy and smart cities initiatives are rapid change that we need to keep up with, and with substantial dividends, I think, too.
 Portlanders and so I vote aye. Kovic? I agree with Commissioner Saltzman, aye.
 No. No. No. Okay. Any other amendments not in our published list council members want to bring forward? And if not, then I believe it's time for public testimony. Actually, at this point, so what we need, one final preliminary step is a motion and vote to improve the entire package of budget adjustments, the substitute, and the amendments that you've just made so that that's all on the table for the public to comment on. Is there a second? Second.
 So that motion. Second. All right. Further discussion of the – so this is, in effect, an omnibus motion to accept all those amendments, put that version of the budget on the table for testimony. Exactly. Okay. Roll call, please. Yes. I'm pleased to support this. And also I want to thank the Budget Office for supervising and guiding us through this amendment process and my colleagues for getting their amendments in yesterday so that we had a chance to look at them and do this in an orderly way. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Nails. Aye. Okay. Thank you both very much. Let's now take public testimony on the approved budget as amended. We have three people signed up, Joe Walsh, Lightning, and Chris Smith. Okay. Come on up. My name is Joe Walsh, for the record. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 We would object to this entire process. There is no way that anybody at home watching this could understand what you're doing because they don't have the amendments in front of them. So you're talking about something that they don't have a clue. There are people in this chamber that I would suspect couldn't tell me what Amendment No. 2 was without looking at their computers.
 So every time you guys get the transparency, you screw it up because we don't know what you're doing. And we get angry over that. We really do. We listen to your objections and we say, well, that's kind of interesting, Commissioner Sullivan. You had a couple of really interesting objections. Why aren't those worked out prior? Now, I know you'll tell me you cannot meet.
 But I'm suggesting this. I don't think legally you are stopped from meeting, but you have to put in protocols if you do. You have work sessions. Don't shake your head, Commissioner. You have working sessions. Why can't you use those? And if you're telling me you can't do that, then change it. If you have to go to the state to change it, change it, because this is bizarre.
 We don't have a clue of what you're doing. And I want to go on the record of objecting to it and objecting to the way you're doing it and objecting to misleading the public that you can't meet more than two people because that's a meeting. Well, make it a working session and put it on tape and open it up. You just don't want to do that.
 It's not that Commissioner Fritz is going to the mayor's office and talking behind the back of Commissioner Salzman. It's ironing these things out. You should not have amendments at this stage of the budget. It should be worked out. You should say to Mr. Walsh, this is the way we're going to spend your money. And I understand it. That's the goal. You've got to do this.
 A friend of mine uses the term kabuki. Nobody knows what the hell you're doing. I got an amendment. I got an amendment to the amendment. I got a friendly amendment. People on TV do not understand that. And most of the people in this chamber outside of staff do not understand what you're doing. So would you please get your act together, come here and say, Mr. Walsh, this is the way we're going to spend your money.
 Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I guess I'll be considered the First Amendment on the body cameras. It was my understanding you allocated some money in the past of about $843,000, and then it was questionable from Police Chief O'Day that he said that
 We were kind of doing a pilot project, and that's why we didn't apply for any grants. As you know, DOJ funded well over $20 million. Seattle received 600,000 body cams. Los Angeles, 1 million body cams. Several other locations, Detroit, 1 million. If, in fact, the grant application was not put in, I'd like to know why. We need to understand there is money out there to access.
 And if someone let the ball down and did not apply for a grant when DOJ was offering well over $20 million, and again, we are under a settlement agreement which cameras have been proven to decrease use of force, excessive use of force, we would be one of the top picks for that grant money. No excuses on that. Now, again, Mayor, I'm going to say to you directly is you have a real problem.
 And I'll tell you what your problem is, sir. You create surplus budgets. Why can't you be like the last mayor and create a deficit budget and then try to get special programs put together and then the other commissioners can applaud and give accolades for doing that while you have a deficit budget? You have a surplus budget. Then you're trying to get more revenue, which I commend you on that. Now, again, what you're asking for on that additional revenue is,
 I think we need to just come a little bit more with data to Portland Business Alliance and get them to understand that it might be necessary at this time to do that tax and show them that with a little bit more data, I think they might,
 have an interest in doing that. They wanted to do a pilot project on Wapato. That should be funded for that. We're talking about these programs like the LEED project from Seattle and different things like that, diversion programs. Wapato is ideal for that type of a center. It needs funding.
 Chair Dan Staten, I think, would be glad to talk to you on that issue, work with Portland Business Alliance, work with the neighborhood associations, and to have a discussion on how to fund that. And I think now is a good time to do that. Issue number two to Commissioner Fritz, do not take the money from the youth. Yes.
 Do not take the money from the youth basketball. If we're going to start cutting money from youth passes, let's go to TriMet that Portland Public Schools should have picked up a long time ago. Leave the youth alone. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Smith?
 Mayor and Commissioners, Chris Smith. This feels a little bit like Groundhog Day. For the second week in a row, I'm looking for three votes for open data. We had a principal disagreement about whether the comp plan was an appropriate home for an open data policy. While I didn't agree with you, I respect your choice. During that process, a lot of you voiced support for open data as a concept.
 And I think it is a critical piece of infrastructure for a successful city in this century. And I'm disappointed that we just saw only two votes supporting it, and I hope I can get one of you to change your mind. You know, in our USDOT application, we've in fact bragged that our program will have a lot of
 a robust open data component, I think we really ought to be making inroads and making that a reality rather than just a promise. Mayor, you were kind enough during the comp plan to support open data. I hope I can persuade you to change your vote and support it this time. It's time we get started with this. Thank you. Thank you.
 Just to clarify, Chris, that there is an open data policy in the comprehensive plan. It wasn't worded quite as expansively as you wanted. And I agree with you that we do need to have a project in the future to look at what does that actually translate to. It's not a priority for right now is the concern. And this budget is about prioritizing what do we absolutely need to get done now. I'm Charles Johnson, and I'm not scared of the 120 percent of voters that Amanda Fritz has on our side. Okay.
 The things that have recently been said need to be amplified in order. We'll go back to Mr. Schatzman's earlier talk about the advantage of having – I think we call it CTO. Is it Committee on Technical Oversight? Anyway –
 They also need to come and look at your electronic stations and talk about ways that we can enhance the screen up there so that amendment language that's printed and circulated among you is available to the viewers. This is getting a little old. Mr. Walsh is generally, if not always, correct that it would facilitate transparency, public involvement, and respect if we could do that.
 Body cameras is a huge issue. I'm sure that the public will get their words in, so I won't really say much about that, except that also there's room for technology improvement there, and that's where Mr. Schaltzman raised the CTO issue. Most police responsibility and accountability activists are concerned that –
 almost all body cameras come from the people that make tasers, and there's crappy procedures to get public access to the raw video. We should try and lead the way with a live streaming system. And the last thing I would say is a relatively small item on the issue that Mr. Saltzman raised about funding some changes for, I think, an assistant chief of staff for one of Amanda Fritz's people because they've got so much work because of marijuana issues.
 marijuana, while awesome in medicine, was sold to us as a moneymaker. So it seems to me that that should be a fee-financed thing. It didn't really need to come from contingency. We should look for ways. I'm not condemning Amanda's decision. I'm just saying that we need to look at whatever revenue marijuana will generate in the city, and if it's creating workload inside the city government, the sales and taxes of marijuana should fund those extra workloads. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you all. Anyone else want to speak on the budget as amended? Come on up. If I might say, Mayor, your surplus budget will be your legacy. Thank you. And that's impressive work. Thank you very much. And I hope the future mayors can follow your lead on that.
 Okay, welcome. Hello. I don't often speak. My name is Roberto Lovato and I'm with Individuals for Justice and the Oregon Progressive Party. I feel kind of responsible for the body camera issue because before written and public testimony before Judge Simon at the U.S. DOJA Portland settlement hearings, I informed Judge Simon
 simon about the body cameras and the use of them nationally so because i feel like that's part of the thing that in his judgment on the settlement he referred to the cameras and the implementation of them so i think that if you implement the use of cameras body cameras in the portland police bureau you really need to be on top of the regulation of those cameras because they can be abused
 And I really feel that you need to protect the citizens of color in Portland from that kind of abuse of their civil rights. So it's really, really important that you guys stay on top of it. And Commissioner Saltman's comment on the generational thing, each year there's a better generation. So to have that updated process and stay on top of that.
 thank you thank you thank you very much ms linsky i think you're next i'll go next uh my name is crystal elinsky represent ten thousand uh commissioners representatives of the city which i hear we're going to get more of and that they might actually cover areas that are obviously not covered um though congratulations on getting more women to run they're all running in the same seat for some bizarre reason but hey
 Things are changing. Thank goodness. I know Mayor Hill says I'm not allowed to ask questions, but did you just vote yay on the amendment for the Smart City Initiative or nay? Nay.
 Okay, it's interesting because I'm thinking like the comprehensive plan and the smart city are things that we definitely have to work on. And I do agree with Commissioner Fritz about prioritizing, in which case I would add that to, well, the body cameras. And again, I agree with Lightning that we could have gotten grants if we wanted to. We had this discussion, so I won't go into my opinion on it again. I did testify very clearly about many reasons why we shouldn't do it.
 um, 2 million just thrown out for new SUVs, new laptops, new games and toys that you pay a thousand dollars to go meet the heat and see all the war toys they get to play with. And so we're still talking about body cameras. Wow. Body cameras. We got to do a dance. And, uh,
 About the holes in the budget, it's interesting because every year I feel like, yeah, we don't have a deficit. We have a surplus. It's weird. And yet we find money. And I've gone to calling Charlie Hales Charlie Holes. Like, whoa, where did that money come from? So when I saw the budget a week ago, I was really surprised that it wasn't even close to anything I thought it would be, at least not this time last year and definitely not four years ago. Wow.
 I went to a meeting Wednesday. What was that meeting? Wednesday public hearing to testify on the budget. And it was standing room only, both floors filled, and you got a random number, and they were called randomly. So if you came with a group, say Latino Network or Portland Tenants United, you were cut off from your base. And Romeo said something interesting, that we should start thinking about sources on where to get the money, right?
 One of them, of course, is whatever happened to 66-67 and things like that? Why aren't we getting more sourcing for the marijuana? I'm going to call it that too. Marijuana is a good source. If we're going to talk about the comprehensive plan and everything, we're not worrying about the budget right now. I understand because it's crunch time, but I showed up for an appointment with Nick Fish yesterday to discuss the budget.
 And he had canceled his staff, apparently, just like when he runs a campaign, they can't keep his appointments in order. But they canceled it the night before and put it for 1030 yesterday morning. And that was for the budget that you guys are discussing now. So, yes, as Joe, the lone vet, Walsh says, this is chaos.
 Thank you. Welcome. Hi there. My name is Catherine Nikolovsky. I testified with the Portland Comp Plan to support the amendments that strengthen the open data policy. I really want to thank Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Novick for voting in support of bringing this back in another life form with the budget. And...
 I don't have anything to say as far as priorities. Every single agenda item you talk about is important. I trust the Commission to make the decisions about where priorities will go, but I can give you a little bit of my point of view from on the ground working with open data and some of my thought process behind why I think it's so important is,
 is that Open Data itself can be almost like a big ethereal concept in that it is never a priority because it's so large, but it touches everything. And...
 The way that we work with data in a civic sense is that it's applied toward these different objects. So everything that is a discussion has elements and components of data to it. And bringing this into something that is transparent and that we can understand, particularly the interdepartmental connections between data. When I work with Hack Oregon, which is the nonprofit that we build open data projects on issues like education, urban development, campaign finance,
 The more and more that we get deeply into these projects, we're starting to see the connections between these different themes. And that becomes literal when we're talking about building technological infrastructure that can begin to see this actively connecting. And we're getting new insight that we weren't able to see before.
 We're going to be continuing to do this work that relies heavily on the openness of the data that we have available. And one of the biggest challenges is when I talk to people that work with the city that have data that they want to put into the system, and it's a difficult process to be able to get all the different approvals and talk to – I spend probably half my day just talking to people to get access to data that wants to be open already, but it's logistically difficult.
 And so I think that we're going to succeed in the long run. I do see Portland as being hugely progressive on this just because of the people that we have here who are willing to step up and do the work themselves. A lot of them already work in tech, and they're coming out at night for free to work with us. They don't necessarily feel a strong support from the city. And so when we eventually do succeed, I mean, I think that the city will find that this is a priority at some point.
 But I'd like to see that it happens now so that we can set a precedent and really do this intelligently. Because a lot of times if we don't have good inroads to be able to work with the city and the people who know the data best, we wonder if we're making the most effective use of our time wanting to contribute to getting new insights. So...
 I know that it would be very, very helpful to have something that would help this community and the tech industry in general move forward with better solutions earlier than later.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. We did have, by the way, a meeting yesterday with Bloomberg Philanthropies, who are funding an effort to work with cities on smart data applications of all kinds, and there's a huge support for that in the city. I think the only question here was whether there's any more capacity at the Planning Bureau to do anything, not whether there's any support at all for this. Quite the contrary. I think we're all in, and, in fact, the city's –
 City of Portland is really a leader in this effort. But right now, with everything else they're doing, the Planning Bureau is pretty maxed out. So in terms of staff and dollars, that's really the issue here, not the programmatic and philosophical support for open data. We're there. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else?
 If not, then I'm going to close the testimony. And it's now the moment in which we get to, as a budget committee, act on the budget as amended. So unless there are any further questions or discussion, we'll take a vote on the budget as amended. Please. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I want to begin by offering my sincere thanks to the Budget Office, in particular Director Andrew Scott and the analysts who reviewed my two bureaus, the two utilities, Ryan Kinsella and Claudia Camposano. I also want to thank my colleagues, Council Office staff and the Mayor for the thoughtful and productive conversations over these past two weeks.
 While we began with a difference of opinion about whether we needed new revenue to balance our budget this year, we've always had a meeting of the minds on values. Given the additional revenue that we had to work with and the declared council priorities, there's a lot to like in this budget. We have made investments in public safety, helping our police bureau better recruit and retain officers and get them on the street quickly, and preserving 13 critical firefighter positions.
 We have committed record funding to address affordable housing and homelessness. We have restored funding in audit services to ensure that they have the staff they need to provide independent oversight of council operations. We extended and expanded a very successful Venture Portland pilot program supporting small businesses in East Portland. We are supporting a community effort in Cully to reclaim the Sugar Shack site as a new community asset. We have shielded the arts from cuts.
 and we have made modest but important investments in the village market, restorative justice programs at Resolutions Northwest, and the Rosewood Community Center. Mayor, this year will mark the third year in a row that I have directed the utilities to bring a combined increase under 5%. I'm pleased we've been able to do that with a focus on basic services like replacing old pipes and getting ready for the big one.
 And under your leadership, Mayor, we have continued to exercise discipline with ratepayer dollars, funding fountain operations and the preservation of Mount Tabor with the general fund. Finally, thanks to our partners at the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon, we've been able to reduce the proposed rate increase even further to 4.45%. Mayor Hales, this is your last budget. I believe, as I've told you privately, a significant part of your legacy will be the reforms you have brought to our budgeting process.
 modified zero-based budgeting, chief among them, and the discipline that we have shown together in targeting our resources to core community needs, be they public safety, housing and homelessness, or transportation infrastructure. Finally, I want to thank my team, led by Sonia Schmansky, and particularly Jim, Jamie, Liam, Paige, Asena, and Betsy. Today, with this budget, I am proud to vote aye. Saltzman.
 well i think the budget we're supporting uh does not contain a new revenue source as proposed by the mayor but i think that as a mayor kind of alluded in his opening remarks about 90 of what he proposed in his budget is what we're adopting now so i think you've done a great job mayor even though there was a fundamental disagreement about the fact that we have record revenue surplus revenues and the need for a new revenue source so i think you've got most of what you're getting in your budget
 I particularly want to laud the restoration of 13 firefighters to general fund away from a federal grant, very critical positions, and the record investment under Mayor Hale's leadership in housing and homeless services. This really is, and joined by record investments on the county itself, I think we're poised to really make some differences, both in the production of affordable housing and in continued services to those who are homeless. And I do want to recognize the efforts
 Budget Office, I think you've really proven yourself on this budget cycle, particularly given that there was a sentiment on this council to have a substitute budget. You didn't waste any time, and you heard that, and you produced a substitute budget that we're poised to adopt here with some changes. So I appreciate it.
 appreciate sort of the nonpartisan neutral role that you played to help facilitate the discussion that we've got today so thanks everybody the budget office and I think this is a budget that has a lot of priorities in here a lot of important things but there's always more we can be doing and that's what we're here for and and you know frankly the the comment that we should be Dealing with everything behind closed doors. I guess I object to that statement I think it's I think it's healthy to have disagreements and you know and
 votes that split votes on the city council i think it's a healthy thing to have those discussions in the open and when we discuss amongst ourselves then we get accused of meeting behind closed doors so you can't have it both ways so i i take pride in having split votes at the council i think i would be more scared of a council that is unanimous in everything it does that's more scary than open divisiveness and split votes so i'm all for open discussion open debate
 And open data. I got that in. This is an historic day in the history of the City of Portland. This morning we learned that the voters approved a major investment in street repair and traffic safety putting an end to 30 years of futility on those issues. Today the Council is approving a budget.
 that, first of all, as my colleagues have said, makes major investments in housing and homeless facilities and services. And I think it's worth calling some of that out. The budget includes over $29 million in new investments in housing, which is a 74% increase over the current year revised budget, 156% increase over the fiscal year 2014-15 budget.
 those new investments include 14.4 million for the housing investment fund which we use to develop or preserve affordable housing over 12 million for projects prioritized by the home for everyone collaboration including support for homeless veterans shelters and housing placement services 690 000 for costs related to maintaining and improving homeless campsites and additional funds for home repair grants home ownership assistance and policy development of the city's inclusionary housing program
 To my delight, this budget invests $858,257 in the equivalent of 13 911 telecommunicator positions at the Bureau of Emergency Communications. Like many 911 centers around the country, BOIC has faced a staffing shortage, which has meant longer, harder hours for our existing staff.
 Inadequate staffing will lead to longer hold times for 911 calls. Since seconds count in an emergency, we need to do everything we can to ensure 911 calls are answered promptly. This budget makes an investment in ensuring our 911 center can continue to serve the public effectively. In addition, the budget directs the Bureau to conduct a staffing study to determine the appropriate number of telecommunicators, as well as make recommendations about training, scheduling, ongoing education, and quality control.
 This budget removes the sort of Damocles that has been hanging over the heads of 13 firefighters for far too long. And I'm very happy to see that those positions are now funded ongoing as they should have been much earlier.
 Like BOEC, the police bureau has faced a staffing shortage. The police bureau indicated that the most critical thing they needed to speed hiring of new officers was increasing the number of background investigators, reducing a bottleneck in the hiring process. This budget commits 16 new positions, total of over $2 million for background investigators.
 As PBOT Commissioner, I have to note this budget commits $1.5 million for paving projects in the next fiscal year, as well as $950,000 for signal reconstruction and $890,000 to replace a bridge. And the budget allocates $450,000 for the Out of the Mud program, which works with communities to identify and bring currently unimproved streets up to code. In addition to these major priorities, I was pleased about a few smaller investments as well. The budget commits $300,000 to the Parks for New Portlanders program,
 At our budget hearings, a tremendous number of people showed up to express support for this program, including especially the World Cup soccer tournament that draws a huge number of diverse participants, especially from East Portland. Together, these initiatives will take advantage of – sorry, I've lost my place. So this is an historic budget.
 And I commend the mayor for shepherding us through this process. And Commissioner Pisch said he didn't get everything that he wanted, but this is a budget the mayor can be very proud of as his last budget. I thank my colleagues for all of their work on this budget.
 I add my thanks to the City Budget Office for their tireless work. And I want to thank Commissioner Amanda Fritz for creating the idea of an independent City Budget Office, which I think serves all of us very, very well. As my colleagues have said, I want to thank all of the staff of the bureaus, the staff of the council offices, and, of course, my own staff, especially the tireless and wonderful Katie Schreiber. Thank you all very much. I'm pleased to vote aye.
 Well, thank you, colleagues. This has been a very open and transparent, very public process. And thanks to the city budget office for shepherding it through and helping us all make those decisions. Thanks, Mayor Hales, for crafting a bold budget that I know you are proud of. And it brings to mind what I found during the recession, that we
 we were more strategic when we needed to make cuts than perhaps when it appears that we have a surplus, because in fact we don't have a surplus. We don't have extra money. Compared with everything that everybody wants us to do, we still don't have enough money. And so thank you for proposing a budget which proposed an increase, and I think that –
 discussion needs to continue after today. And I certainly am committing to be a part of that. Thank you to my colleagues and our staffs for working collaboratively to come up with the alternative, which is fiscally responsible and spends taxpayers' money wisely. On the police issue, we certainly appreciate all of the work that our police officers are doing and that they are doing a lot of overtime to cover basic services and safety on our streets.
 and we very much appreciate the work that they are doing in partnership with the Community Oversight Advisory Board and the Department of Justice to reform the way we do community policing and that that in some cases is meaning that people are leaving because they don't subscribe to that way of doing things. It means that we're encouraging other people to come and work with a police department which is going to be exemplary throughout the country and is going, just like everyone else...
 with other professions, Portland is a place that people want to come and we need to market our police bureau as exemplary and provide incentives. And this budget does provide money for incentives for new officers. I was not able to support the proposal for $3 million ongoing this year because it also had another $3 million the following year and another $3 million the following year. That's $9 million of ongoing money.
 for existing police officers, it also would mean that retirees, people who are already retired from the police bureau, would get a 14% raise. And how that would translate into having more people in the police bureau rather than encouraging people to leave was never satisfactorily explained to me. So the human resources folks and the police union and others will need to continue to have discussions about what can we do
 to ease the, to make sure that we recruit and retain officers to work in the police bureau that doesn't result in such huge impacts to the rest of the general fund bureaus. And so I know that that will also continue because the adoption of this budget and the rejection of the $3 million proposed in it for wages doesn't take away the urgency of the need.
 On the diversion program, Mayor, I very much appreciate your proposing that as an alternative, especially for people who are experiencing mental illnesses and also drug and alcohol challenges. I want to...
 I appreciate and remember that last year we put money into the Unity Center, which will be opening in the fall. I know that both police and fire have been working very intensively with a community group that are looking at how do we have a system to take care of people who are having challenges while they are outside or for those who are inside too. And so I'm
 hopeful for the first time in the 30 years that I've been in Portland that we will be able to have a system. And certainly in the future, should it turn out that a diversion program could be something that would help people out rather than just telling more people there's a 10-month waiting list and we'll get you services in the meantime, then it's certainly something that I will support.
 particularly want to thank Michael Batsai and the Portland Park staff and Amalia Alconda-Morris and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement staff
 Laborers 483, here you are again in your orange T-shirts. And you worked very hard to reach a collaborative agreement on the arbitration settlement. I am absolutely overjoyed that over 100 new, fully funded union positions are being created in parks in this budget. And it's a tribute to everyone on the council that after we heard at the community budget sessions that this is important to the community, that the jobs and the work being done, and that we should
 we could compensate city workers appropriately, that it's not okay to have city workers on food stamps who are providing services that the community wants and needs. This is huge.
 I appreciate Commissioner Novick saying multiple times about the $29 million allocated to housing and looking at the big picture of the budget, not only the tweaks that we're making today and the significant changes that we're making today, but also what's great in this budget. And certainly the funding for park staff is great.
 I also appreciate the inclusion of funding for the city auditor and her inclusion in the process. We are not cutting performance audits, and we are adding staff in the independent police review, and that also speaks to our commitment to both funding the independent auditor and to making sure that things work well within city government.
 I particularly appreciate, Mayor, that you in your proposal and then the council responded to the community testimony that we heard of the fabulous community forums that we held. That when people come and testify, it should matter. And the people came today to testify, they were the last six in a process where hundreds of people have sent us comments in which we now as elected officials are responsible for formulating a final budget. And I'm very proud to be part of that process.
 So in addition to the pieces that have already been mentioned, I do want to call out the digital equity plan that's being funded and potentially that we could engage the Mount Hood Regulatory Commission in looking at could they help fund an open data project at some point in the future. Okay.
 We are putting $8.5 million into capital projects for transportation, parks, and emergency preparedness, thanks to the 50% set-aside policy that the council passed and has stuck with.
 And it also includes 3.8 million for needed parks repairs, including 250,000 for Americans with Disabilities Act improvement. Of course, we know that we have a lot more to go in that realm. When you have a big hole, you start filling it bucket by bucket. And again, thank you, Commissioner Novick, for adding the buckets to help with transportation. This budget adds 3.3 million for transportation needs. Thank you.
 We do need to look at additional revenue sources. As I said at the beginning of my comments, we don't have enough money to fund everything that everybody wants to have done. We never will, and we're not proposing to be able to do everything that we're asked to. We have to prioritize. We have to make sure that every...
 tax dollar is spent wisely because we know that those tax dollars are hard-earned by our communities, and they're not equitably distributed in terms of who pays property taxes and who doesn't and how that is just something that we need to look at with our legislative agenda. I will be bringing forward to the council a proposal for a marijuana tax to refer to the November ballot. By state law, we're allowed to propose a 3% tax on sales of recreational marijuana.
 And we will have a council discussion about how that should be allocated or suggested to the voters to allocate it. It would bring in about $3 to $5 million. And I will note that the current tax on recreational marijuana sales by the state is 25%. The city doesn't get a penny of that. And so the 3%.
 which would be in addition to the 17% that the state's taxes will be reduced to starting next year, would still be a reduction in the current amount that people are paying as a tax on sales of recreational marijuana. So that's one concept. I do think, Mayor, that we need to have some discussions with the business community about the business license tax and the level of it and what services does the community want to fund that is not paid.
 funded in this budget.
 We have done so many cuts in the eight years that I've been on this council and on this budget committee that have been very painful, and people have lost their jobs. People have lost services. We have not recovered from the recession in terms of the number of city employees that we have or the services that we provide. But this budget is a responsible way to add back the most crucial services and to provide equity in the budget. So thank you, all colleagues, and Mayor, for your leadership. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you very much. Let me frame this in perhaps a little different way than I have earlier in our budget deliberations and discussions and talk just for a minute about how I, as mayor, spend my time. So as mayor, I spend some of my time focused on managing the enterprise, on keeping my nose to the grindstone, whether that's spending not just two weeks, Commissioner Fish, but three months with the budget staff and my staff preparing this budget.
 And so, again, Andrew, Jeremy, all of your team have done a wonderful job. Josh, Albert, Tara Pierce, and others in my office have worked very hard, too. That's an important responsibility of the mayor. I once actually had a playful conversation with a local musician who said he was interested in running for mayor. And I said, if you want to be mayor, you've got to like three documents, the city budget, a contested land use case, and a police discipline letter. Sorry, Daryl.
 You've got to like those documents. You actually want to read those documents and care about them because you've got a big ministerial responsibility as mayor, and you have to do this technical stuff like land use. And so I spend a lot of my time with my nose to the grindstone, and that's good because a mayor should do that.
 I spend some of my time, a smaller amount, on strategic moves, like working with Patrick Quinton to make sure that all the good ideas in Lent finally come out of the ground, which, thank you, Patrick, they are, or that we carry out a historic land use and financial transaction to finally get the industrial processing of mail out of the central city and out to the airport where it belongs and finish the creation of the Pearl District. Thank you again, Patrick.
 So that's an important part of the mayor's job as well, those strategic moves. Sometimes they're activists like that. Sometimes they're defensive, like trying to bat aside a nuisance lawsuit so we can finally build the headquarters hotel or that Metro can with our help. And then another part of my time, one of the smallest but is important to what I'm trying to say here, is that I get to spend a little bit of time in the context of how cities in the world and in the country are working.
 Portland is a very active participant in the C40 group. As we all know, I got the invitation to go meet with Pope Francis and hear about his discussions about climate change with 60 other mayors from around the world. He kept referring to us as world leaders, but the point is that cities are where
 where the action is on climate. I participate a little bit in the United States Conference of Mayors. I learn from my colleagues. In fact, we learn so much that we then followed up on those meetings and had a West Coast Mayor Summit here in December, organized by Tara, thank you, that brought together the mayors of the major West Coast cities to talk about climate change and about housing and homelessness, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the head of the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness showed up for the meeting.
 And I learn a lot in those discussions. And one of the things that has become so clear for me in that context is that the world is moving to cities, not just this one, but the world is obviously moving here too. But the world is moving to cities. They're where population is going, where innovation is, where most of the economic activity is, where most of the carbon is generated, or where most of the carbon savings are being created through good public policy.
 And that work continues. During the remaining time that I'm serving as your mayor, I'm going to keep my nose to the grindstone, but I'm also going to continue in those discussions because they help us. They give us ideas. They give us allies. This afternoon, Commissioner Novick and I will meet with the Secretary of Transportation here in Portland as we compete for the Smart Cities Challenge. And on Monday, I'll fly to the White House to meet with the Vice President about gun strategies because every community in this country needs to figure out how to get guns out of the hands of people that shouldn't have them.
 So that...
 those discussions inform our work and they also inform my concern about the city of portland because i ran for public office the first time when i served as city commissioner and this time because i wanted to make sure we actually do our job on basic services whether it's fixing up the parks making sure that we have enough firefighters and putting our streets in good repair and again thank you both for progress on both of those fronts but there's more obviously needed on both fronts
 I ran for public office because I believe in restoring the credibility of city government, and it had suffered some damage. And the fact that we had not only, Commissioner Fish, good work on your part and the Bureau's parts on creating these budgets, but we had only the Citizens Utility Board and the Public Utility Board.
 board show up to testify on the budget and to support it. We didn't have a bunch of citizens coming in to the budget process complaining about how their water and sewer funds were being spent on inappropriate things because they're not.
 And no news in that case is very good news. We had, I talk about this one a lot, we had zero press coverage on Moss Adams dropping a two-and-a-half-inch thick document on that table, our comprehensive annual financial report, and saying, we have no issues. We got nothing. We got nothing to report. In thousands of line items, our financial staff and the city of Portland are doing everything right.
 Again, no news is good news. So I think we've done some good work, and there's always more to do in buttressing the credibility of the public sector, especially when it's under attack in political rhetoric. And then one of the reasons I ran the first time that's turned out to be, again, relevant to what I'm trying to say here is growth and change. I ran for office the very first time because I'd grown up in a place that suburbanized badly, and I thought Portland was in for growth in the 90s. It turned out it was true.
 This time around, it turned out to be even more true than I could have thought possible. When I ran for office, there were two cranes on the horizon in Portland, and they were both for public works projects. A little different situation now. And we're dealing with a wave of growth that I don't think is going to stop anytime soon. Portland is a great place. The world knows it, and it's less expensive than San Francisco, Seattle, and Vancouver. Thank you.
 even though it's awfully expensive to those of us that have been used to it. And so I don't think the public finance system that we have here in this city or in this state is really up to the task of that growth. We have cobbled things together.
 We rely an awful lot on the property tax. This fall we will again act on school funding, and I'm really happy that we're spending over $100 million on three of our high schools to put them in good shape. And I really do believe we need to have more money for affordable housing. But boy, do we ride that poor, tired property tax horse hard, because it's kind of what we have for capital investments, with now the happy exception of a little bit of gas tax.
 And then we have some business taxes and some niche taxes and maybe one more or two more soon. But in a state without a sales tax and a city without a sales tax, I'm not sure that our public finance system can operate for the growth that we're expecting. Again, part of the context is talking to other mayors. And if there's a tinge of jealousy here, it's true. When I find out about Phoenix's $31 billion transit program,
 funded by four-tenths of a cent of sales tax, I think we might be a little penny-wise and pound-foolish around here. But anyway, my point is, the reason I brought up new revenue is I believe the city of Portland is going to need it, because we're growing and we're a big city now, and soon we need to pay the bills for having the public services, including the police officers, that we need to have.
 So that subject, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, must continue. We'll continue while I'm here, and no doubt we'll continue after I'm gone, because this is not a short-term problem. But there's some things we need to do soon on this front. So I will continue in the quest for more revenues for good public services, because this growing city needs them.
 This budget is a good step in that direction, and there are a lot of things, yes, you've all said, and I agree, that are very fine in this budget and I'm very proud of. There's still more work to do. Thank you all very much for this good work. Aye. Let's take a brief break, and then we'll come back to the rest. Nope, nope, nope. Can't take a break yet. We've got to do this first. So now, CityShall Levy, it's...
 Full permanent rate of $4.5770 per $1,000 of assessed value and $14,875,168 for the payment of voter-approved general obligation bond principal and interest and $138,900,728 for the obligations of the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund.
 and for a $0.4026 per thousand of assessed value for the children's levy. Furthermore, the city shall levy the amounts listed in Attachment E for urban renewal collections. I will now entertain a motion to approve those tax levies. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Vote, please. I just hope you got all those fractions right. I read them carefully. We're checking. Okay. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, I Those are big numbers and the people of Portland do indeed invest in the community that we value I uh And now I will adjourn the Budget Committee session and we will take that break. Thank you mayor. Thank you council. Okay Carl I think we're gonna come back to order here in ten seconds. I
 So we're going to do PDC's budget real quick. Yeah, and then can we do the three second readings? Okay, we're returning to order, and we're going to take item 520 because we have people queued up to do that, and that is the Portland Development Commission budget. So I'm convening the council as the Portland Development Commission Budget Committee. Gina, do we need to call the roll? Please do. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Okay.
 Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Okay.
 Patrick, welcome. Welcome. All right. Let me see. Do I have a script for this? I probably do. Yeah, we don't have much in the way of presentation. We handed out to you a memo. There it is. Updated memo. Okay. I'm now calling a motion to consider the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the change memo and Exhibit A. So I'll make that motion to consider the changes to the proposed budget and the change memo in Exhibit A. Is there a second? Second.
 Okay. PDC can now discuss the changes, including the change memo, if you want to. Sure. Good morning, Mayor. Good to be sure. This is Tony Barnes, Budget Officer. The changes in the change memo include the changes that were approved in the city's budget this morning for general fund. Also, carryover of housing dollars, approximately $4 million. It's identified in Exhibit A. Okay.
 The one change that is different from what was distributed on May 9th would be the reduction of the B Corps, but that was included with the spring bump of $75,000 with the city budget approval this morning. I caught that change from this morning. Okay. So it's included in the revised Exhibit A before you at this moment.
 Do we need to amend the change memo, or is that just as automatic because it's in our budget? It's automatic for the document before you. Okay. All right. Okay. Any questions for Tony or for the team about the memo? Are there any council proposed amendments? Okay. Hearing none, anything further from our chair or our team? Thank you very much. Stand by in case we have questions. Is there any public testimony on the budget? Okay. Come on up. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. As far as on the carryover on housing dollars, I do agree with that. Another issue pertaining to the Development Commission is I have a real issue on the way Centennial Mills was handled. And I know you're going to try to cut me off, Mayor. I do not like to see a prominent developer such as Jordan Schnitzer pushed to the side on a development deal.
 As you know, we had Bob Scanlon in here, John Russell, and other numerous developers that are well known through the city. You could count on both your hands between all those people, and it's a very tight network. They have the ability to invest a tremendous amount of money in this city, and they have the ability to make phone calls and decide they want to invest a tremendous amount of money in other states.
 And if you negotiate deals and pick and choose and push them from one deal to do another deal, such as the United States Post Office, and you think that's your legacy, think again. You do not step on the toes of developers that have the ability in this city to bring in tremendous amount of money to invest in this city.
 or decide with their friends and other developers, no, we'll invest in California. No, we'll just invest in Seattle. No, we decided to invest in Arizona. You have to have discretion. And when you have developers standing up and saying, I don't feel I've been treated right on this deal, you better listen real close. You better listen real close and understand that
 that what their decisions are to end up investing in this city affects everybody in this room, even down to the most vulnerable people when they decide they want to make donations, when they decide, like Bob Scanlon, who has so much money, and if he wanted to donate to any foundation, he's right up there along Joe Weston and half these other developers. You better take him serious and understand, do not step on their toes.
 We had a past mayor that stepped on some toes of developers, and let me tell you something. It was nothing to do with the recession on why their budget was a deficit. They decide where they want to place their money. Portland is looking very good at this time because a mayor hails, and you better understand that. Do not step on the toes of the developers. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Good afternoon, almost. I'm Block U. Oh, no, I'm Charles Johnson. Hello.
 I think Block U is fully out of the inventory, but we're seeing some delay getting a health department headquarters on that property. The reason I mention it is because regardless of how fantabulous the PDC.US budget looks on paper, there's no denying that any time you go to visit Bud Clark Commons, we walk right past an empty city block.
 some bizarre land banking. I don't know what the exact reason for that is, why the homeless people have to be out on the Springwater Corridor and pushed around by the police. I've never actually researched that particular block, but we generally know that vacant blocks get maintained by the PDC. The same PDC, which in its budget, is apparently doing some weird deal with the Oregon Department of Transportation to fence off and rent space under I-5
 near the Eastside River Fire Station. So these are relatively small things in the overall scope of the PDC budget, but I hope in these last few months of your term as mayor and as you work with the transition team for Ted Wheeler, that we'll open up the discussion with a broader community, not just developers, as Mr. Lightning has referred to, but developers.
 to make sure that the city really feels that the Portland Development Commission is an engine for good policies and prosperity for all of us, not a land banking cash cow for a limited network of developers who some people feel...
 may not put enough back into their community. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Just so you know, Mr. Johnson, that vacant lot, my understanding is it's going to be needed for construction staging of the developments of the health care facility. And then secondly, we did look at it for Right to Dream 2, and it's contaminated, so it's not suitable for people to be on it. And they spray weird stuff on it sometimes. I've gone by there. But I hope that we'll look forward to finding a good project to go there, maybe something that's
 similarly co-financed like the St. Francis development, there's something new going in the Pearl which has a large number of units and once we clean up that brown soil land I'm sure we can get some subsidized housing in there, especially because we're going to pass a wonderful huge housing bond this fall. Commissioner Fritz, I'd be remiss if I didn't also thank a prior council for
 agreeing to change the design of Bug Clark Commons. It was originally to be a three-story suburban-style project on Block U. By turning it into an urban form shape and taking half the block, we actually created the half block that now can become the home for the county health department. And that was – I thought that was a wonderful decision, and it created value, and that's what's given us this opportunity to perform it.
 Okay, so now we need to take a vote on that motion to approve the budget adjustments in Exhibit A of the change memo. Is this an end to do the final vote, or is this the vote? That is, we're voting to approve the adjustments, and then we vote to approve the budget as amended. So this is a vote to approve the adjustments. This is the penultimate, your favorite word. Gina, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 Novick aye Fritz aye Hales and now I'm a motion pleased to approve the budget as amended second roll call fish a lot of hard work has brought us to this day and I think what I would like to focus on is Thanking Patrick Quinton for his service to the city. I Asked Commissioner Salzman how long you've been in this position. We think it's about five years We're in the right ballpark
 five years, and you can be very proud of the work that has been accomplished under your watch. And what I would say, having served on this body now for over seven years, I appreciate the openness you brought under your leadership, the regular meetings you've held with counsel, the willingness to engage issues and find common ground, and then the good partnership. I hope you feel great pride in your service and what you've accomplished.
 And I know we'll have another opportunity down the road to embarrass you and thank you, but at least for purpose of this vote, thank you. And Chair Kelly, thank you for agreeing at the mayor's request to chair the Portland Development Commission. You also have another two or three full-time jobs that you have in addition to this. So this is pure service, and you are not compensated, and yet you do a lot for our community. So thank you for your service. And this budget...
 has a lot of things that I like in it and obviously no budget is perfect, but I also want to acknowledge that we did make your job more difficult by bumping the TIF to 45 for affordable housing. And that that had a domino effect in other priorities within the Bureau. When we made the change to take housing out and to focus on economic development, I think at the time it was the right call. And we ended up with two organizations that were stronger as a result.
 But the challenge that we're going to have to embrace going forward is how to give the Portland Development Commission stable and sustainable funding going forward. And inevitably, I think that's going to mean a different model because we're not going to be able to rely on TIF in the way we have in the past.
 And I look forward to working with a future council and crafting a new vision for the Portland Development Commission that inevitably requires it to be more entrepreneurial. And I, for one, would like to see some of the properties that the city manages be turned over to Portland Development Commission to become asset generators to provide a base of funding for the good work you do. But to everyone who participated in this budget and brought us to this moment, thank you and a special thank you to Patrick. Bye.
 Saltzman? Well, I'd like to also recognize Patrick Quinton for his tenure as Executive Director. He's done a great job, and really to the Board of the PDC with Chair Kelly and the other Board members for all the hard work that they put into this budget and to being PDC Commissioners. It's a lot of work, a lot of hearings. As Commissioner Fish said, there's no compensation for that, but you are our economic engine, and you have definitely served this city well. I feel the
 as good a position as it's ever been in terms of the economy, job creation, and these are things that we can never take our eyes off of. We've got to keep our eyes on that ball all the time, and that's what I count in part on the PDC to be doing. So thank you very much for the job you do. Aye. Novick. Thank you, Patrick. Thank you, Chair Kelly. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 I'm reminded of the comments Mayor Hales made regarding the lack of drama in the utilities budget, thanks to Commissioner Fisher's wise stewardship. And there was a time when Portland Development Commission budget hearings and pretty much every PDC hearing was filled with people very upset. And here we are, and they're not. So thank you, Patrick Quinton, for your leadership, Tom Kelly for your chairing of the board, Scott Andrews for his previous good
 good work you know that since i've been on the council we have moved and made good decisions and the prosperity of the city is one of the outcomes of those good decisions so they don't just happen they happen because you have a strategic plan because you implement it very carefully thanks to kimberly schneider for her support work as well and glad that you're going to be continuing with the commission and thank you mayor hales for your leadership i
 For PDC to be an effective community resource, there needs to be excellent volunteer leadership. And again, Tom, thank you and board members, and we'll soon be bringing forward a new board member to replace one who's unfortunately leaving us, who's done a great job. But we have to have a very small board, five people who do a great job of representing the whole city in all its diversity in the leadership. And that has to work, and it is working. So thank you, Tom.
 Second thing that has to work is we have to have an executive director who can lead the organization and get things done, and you have. I mentioned a couple earlier, a couple of others that I'm really proud of in terms of your work. Not easy stuff. You had to downsize this organization.
 No executive likes doing that. You led us through, with my support particularly, a right-sizing of our urban renewal areas, where they are, what they do, and how much they take from the flow of tax revenues versus going to general government. This council approved that big reform, and you helped us get through that in a very thoughtful way.
 And then a strategic plan that's now the direction for the agency that moves us from just building the city and creating jobs, good things, to building the city, creating jobs, and sharing prosperity. Okay.
 and now has those three pillars undergirding the work. And, you know, we think of Patrick, I'll tease you a little bit, as, you know, this very dignified executive, but I've seen him get very passionate in public about the subject of equity, talking to the community about past wrongs that PDC has committed and how committed the agency is now to working with the community in partnership, and he means it. And that's one of the things that we'll miss, not having you at the helm at PDC.
 And then finally, we have to have good staff behind Patrick and Tony, you and others, and PDC have done great work on this budget and in getting through all those difficult challenges. So I'm really proud of the work that we've done together. And Patrick, thank you. Again, thank you because you've done well. And I know you'll do well in the future, but you've done well for Portland. Aye. Thank you all.
 Okay, let's move to our second. Oh, sorry, I have to close the PDC Budget Committee and reconvene as the City Council. Thank you very much, Matt. Good stuff. Here, I'll take a round of 21, 23. Okay, let's do the second reading items, Carla, which are 521, 522, and 523. Sorry, 523 and 524. So let's take those, please, starting with 521. 521.
 Correct and clarify fire regulations and adopt 2014 Oregon fire code with city of Portland amendments. Oh call please No, Vic I I
 approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Jarrett Street condominiums located at 5732 North Interstate Avenue. Roll call, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Well, as I said last week, I'm very pleased that we are actually helping to do some affordable homeownership as opposed to rentals. These are condos and people who own these have equity and prosperity. Aye. Novick? Aye.
 aye aye aye and 524 vacate a portion of northwest 101st street avenue south of northwest thompson road subject to certain conditions and reservations roll call great fish aye saltzman aye novick aye fritz aye hail aye okay so now let's return to the balance of the regular agenda um go to item 518 please
 Oh, no, we've got to go to 513. Sorry. 513, revised transportation fees, rates, and charges for fiscal year 2016-17 and fix an effective date. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, this is PBOT's annual update of fees for permits for use of or work in the public right-of-way and parking regulatory fees. These fees align with our goals of achieving cost recovery, managing growth, and improving safety as a Vision Zero city. And I will turn it over to Dave Benson and Christine Leopold.
 Good morning. My name is Christine Leanna, and I'm the manager of the Portland Bureau of Transportation's Development Permitting and Transit Group. And with me is Dave Benson, who is our parking and regulatory manager. So just very quickly, again, this is our annual fee update, which is a compilation of the –
 and permits for use of the right-of-way. Of the six schedules of fees that are attached to this ordinance, they are essentially used for
 Staff reviewing the requests to use or construct in the right of way against our standards and regulations. For providing customer service. For establishing impacts and mitigations. For permit issuance, insurance and risk setting, tracking and database management. Inspection, enforcement, parking use, repair.
 regulatory and other administrative requirements. So again, this is a summary of all the things that transportation does and allows people to do in the public right-of-way. So for the highlights this year, we have achieved our target of development funding its own way with our fee increases in Schedule B.
 Development is high and continues to be high. We are experiencing a lot of growth in the city, a lot of permitting. And with the increases, we will be able to be at cost recovery for development. So I'm proud to say that. The other focus is on Vision Zero.
 And our efforts to make sure that all types of transportation, pedestrians, bicyclists, auto traffic, truck traffic, that they are all accommodated safely.
 during construction for our development. So that's reflected mainly in our Schedule D, and then later this year you will see a resolution coming to Council about some of our administrative rules that we're making to really prioritize the accommodation through work zones. So with that, I will turn it over to Dave Benson, see if he wants to do any highlights, and then we will take questions. Okay, thank you.
 well good afternoon now and mayor and council my name is dave benson the parking services manager for pbot i'll just give you some of the highlights on parking garages as you know we implemented a low-cost swing ship permit for uh low-income workers for the smart park garages 35 a month
 We've adjusted, proposing to adjust the rates in the smart park garages, not all of them, but most of them, usually around monthly rates from about $5 to $20 just to keep pace with the market. We do market research once a year to inform those. For the first time, we've applied a metric to the cost of carpooling permits. We're now recommending 75% of the monthly rate.
 You will see an increase in the Central Eastside area parking permits. That is a Central Eastside Business Industrial Council recommended that, and those collected fees return to them in excess of our costs. So they can do transportation safety projects.
 And lastly, you know well the fee structure for the private for hire, the 50-cent ride fee for taxis and TNCs, and then we are not recommending any changes for the balance of the industry.
 And how much money has the 50-cent ride fee brought in to the city? Thus far, we just issued, I don't know that we've collected, but on April 21st, we issued invoices totaling $586,000 for the first quarter of this year. And how many people have taken advantage of the low-income and smart park swing shift? At my last check-in, 15. It's been a slow start, but we expect it to pick up.
 Yeah, I would appreciate a commitment to come back and ask us to – or with some changes if it doesn't. I'd be happy to. We're doing outreach to businesses, labor, and other groups to incent folks to apply for it. So I'm hoping that increases. Yeah, the challenge is that certainly for the retail workers, the hours don't work. So I'd be surprised if you get all that many months.
 many more folks and I think that was part of the target so as let's do the outreach to see if we if we could make sure that people know it's available but then there may be a need to go back and look at the program as structured because I'm skeptical that it's meeting the retail workers needs absolutely okay other questions anything else you need to cover
 All right. Thank you very much. Just one other question. That's about the downtown marketing initiative. You know, usually there's a discussion from the Portland Business Alliance and others about that program in conjunction with parking fees. And so where is that at in the Portland Bureau of Transportation budget? Yeah, that is paid for out of Smart Park revenues. And it's scheduled to this coming year at a quarter of a million dollars. And that is the same as it has been? No, it was half a million dollars last year.
 So it's 50% of what it was. We get testimony about that. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Let's see if there's anyone here that wants to testify on this item. Anyone signed up? Anyone want to speak? Okay. Then it will pass to second reading next week, right? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you very much. All right, let's move to the rest of the regular agenda, starting with 518. We'll do that poll's consent item first. Oh, thank you. Yeah, let's do the poll's consent item, which is 514. If Mark is here, there he is. Yes. 514, please. Yes.
 authorized settlement between Portland Police Association and the City of Portland through its Portland Police Bureau regarding employment claims. Okay. Mr. Amberg has a substitute exhibit, I believe, right? Yes. Thank you, Mayor and Council Members. Mark Amberg, City Attorney's Office.
 We have a substitute exhibit to go along with this proposed ordinance. It's the fully signed version of the settlement agreement. The version that was presented with the ordinance did not have all signatures on it. That's the only change from the exhibit that was attached to the ordinance. Thank you.
 Okay, so is there a motion to substitute this? Is this a full substitute? Yes. Okay. So moved. Second? Second. Okay, a motion to adopt the substitute. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Aye. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Now, truly, good afternoon. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and...
 The vast majority of our police officers work hard and diligently and in good conscience. And I'm pleased to see that the police association has opened up discussions about many things that could improve the environment for retaining and improving the officer staffing. But when mistakes happen, taxpayers foot the bill. And...
 transparency and open data are better served by reviewing how often and how much the city has had to pay out for regrettable incidences with the police resulting in violence or death. On this particular incident, I...
 Note that we're not saying any particular dollar amounts on the record for people that aren't looking this stuff up on the Internet and don't have the copy of the substitute agreement before them. So, you know, you're not living up to your best standards. I'm not saying that you shouldn't pass what's been provided and put this behind us, but, you know, we could do better. Thank you very much. Okay. Any questions for Mark? No.
 Okay, it's an emergency ordinance, so let's take a vote, please. Fultzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Rick? As was stated, the substitute merely adds the signatures. Aye. Nails? Aye. Okay, now let's move to 518. Report on year one implementation of citywide tree project. And I understand the request is to refer that back to Commissioner Frist's office? Yes, please, for two weeks. Okay, so order. 519. 519.
 519, approved fiscal year 2016-17, cost of living adjustments to pay rates for nonrepresented classifications and elected officials. Specify the effect upon employees in the classifications involved and provide for payment. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Elizabeth Nunes and I'm with the Bureau of Human Resources. I'm the class comp manager. Thank you.
 and I'm here to present an ordinance to provide a 1% cost of living adjustment in the 2016-17 budget. It would be effective July 1, and it is covering nonrepresented classifications, employees, and elected officials, should they choose to receive it. The cost, total cost, is $1,624,000.
 And $755,000 of it is from the general fund, and the remaining $869,000 is non-general fund bureaus. Okay. Thanks, Elizabeth. Questions about the ordinance? Okay. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Mr. Wilkins signed up. Okay. Come on up.
 I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and on this one I kind of want to be funny. I have a friend who criticizes the fact that the mayor or various people take foreign trips and vacations. Can't you take salary increases and dump it into some travel fund so that these foreign trips are kind of not something that you get paid?
 as being mayor-elected official. But one more funny thing I'd like to say is, why don't you send a laptop or something to a foreign country and have a virtual mayor that sits there and looks like he's attentively watching the meeting while he hears everything in his lounge chair in the backyard? Right.
 and put Portland, Oregon on it. Another thing, when you go to a global warming conference or something in Paris, you're flying in a jet plane. So why don't you just insist that maybe we could do that with electronic communication? Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, this passes the second reading. 5.22 seconds.
 accept a grant in the amount of $96,999 from the University of Utah for Pay for Success Innovation Fellowship Program to advance the City of Portland's Green and Healthy Homes Initiative. Commissioner Sossaman. I'm excited to announce that the Housing Bureau has received a competitive grant from the University of Utah of $100,000. Thank you.
 to perform a feasibility analysis of a pay for success funding model for our green and healthy homes initiative. And it's a great thing, and we'll use it to deal with integrated issues like – well, maybe I'll turn it over to you to speak in more detail. Sure. My name is David Chern. I'm a program coordinator with the Housing Bureau. Excuse me. We were –
 Delighted to receive the award. It's a national program run through the White House Initiative, Pay for Success. It helps agencies develop feasibility analysis of using social impact bonds. We intend to use the money to hire a limited-term FTE to help us work through our Green and Healthy Homes Initiative to see what the downstream savings are in that program that we could potentially use to explore social impact bond financing in the future. Thank you. Thank you.
 thanks very much anyone want to speak on this item if not then it passed the second reading 525 authorized contract with Green Works PC for master planning services for mill and Midland parks at a not to exceed amount of 119 thousand eight hundred and fifty nine dollars
 Thank you, Mayor. This ordinance authorizes a contract for the master planning of two parks in East Portland. Prioritizing these plans is another step towards increasing access to parks for all Portlanders, including those in East Portland who have historically had fewer parks compared with the other areas of the city. The Council allocated the money for this in the last budget process, and I greatly appreciate it.
 We went back to the community and asked which of the many unplanned parks in East Portland they would like us to start on, and these two were amongst them. After these two parks are master-planned and developed, they will serve over 1,150 new households that currently do not have a neighborhood park within a half mile.
 Public involvement process for master planning these parks will include intentional outreach to historically underserved or not served populations, including immigrant and refugee communities and communities of color. Maya Aguilar, sorry, Aguilar, I'm looking at the phonetics and I think I got it right without. Agarwal, but that's close enough. Thank you. From Portland Parks and Recreation is here to tell us about the project.
 uh good afternoon uh mayor hales and city commissioners um i'm maya agarwal a city planner with the portland parks and recreation bureau and portland parks and recreation can continues to deliver on its commitment to expand parks and recreation opportunities for the communities and neighborhoods in east portland
 As Commissioner Fritz mentioned, in November 2014, City Council designated $300,000 from 2014's fall supplemental budget for new master plans for Eastside Parks.
 in april 2015 portland parks and recreation the east portland neighborhood organization parks committee and commissioner amanda fritz engaged the community in a public outreach process to determine which sites should be prioritized as part of the east side park master planning process as part of our analysis
 Mill and Midland Parks received our highest equity score of 15 points in recognition of its diverse demographics. And based on the public outreach process and Portland Park and Recreation staff input, Commissioner Fritz chose to fund master plans for Mill Park and Midland Park in a concurrent process.
 Mill and Midland Parks are important public spaces for the community, and their master plans will ensure that future generations can continue to enjoy the wide variety of experiences the Portland parks offer. The prioritization of these plans is consistent with our Parks 2020 vision, which seeks to have every Portlander within one-half mile of a park.
 Through a competitive process, GreenWorks PC was selected as the consultant to provide planning, project management, and public involvement services to create a master plan for Mill and Midland Parks. Due to the demographics of the population surrounding the parks, Portland Parks anticipates significant outreach for both projects. Numerous diverse communities and groups reside in and support the area and would be served by the parks.
 Residents of the David Douglas School District speak 71 different languages. The top six languages are Spanish, Russian, Vietnamese, Chinese, Ukrainian, and Somali. The racial ethnic background of the population of the David Douglas School District is varied, and household incomes are relatively low. Development of the master plan will include a robust citizen participation process, a
 with focused outreach to historically underrepresented populations, including minority, youth, disabled, immigrant, refugee, and non-English-speaking populations. Four out of five evaluators who reviewed and recommended awarding this consultant contract are community members who live and or work in East Portland.
 Portland Parks and Recreation asks the Council to authorize a professional, technical, and expert services contract with GreenWorks PC for master planning services for Mill and Midland Parks at a not-to-exceed amount of $119,859.18.
 Colleagues, the minority women participation in this contract is over 18%, including 13% women in minority-owned firms. And in case you're wondering what's happening to the rest of the money, that's going to be used for master planning the 150th and division property, and we'll be bringing that separately. Great. Good. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Thank you.
 If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Britt? Thank you very much. This is very exciting. We don't yet have the funds dedicated to do any improvements that the community might develop in this process, but the first step is getting the master plan done so that we can go for grants and other things. Thank you. Aye. Thank you.
 you know the systematic planning and development of parks in east portland is one of the best things we're doing so i appreciate this hi okay uh one more item for this morning's agenda that's 526. amend park system development charge capital improvements plan to update the project list
 Thank you, Mayor. Portland Parks and Recreation System development charges cover a portion of the cost to provide parks and recreation facilities needed to service Portland's growing community. They can't be used for existing deficits. They are used to expand capacity. They're used only for capital improvements that increase the capacity to offset the impact of new development.
 Capacity increasing projects must be on the PARCS System Development Charge Capital Improvement Project list to be eligible for System Development Charge funds. It's important to update regularly the PARCS SDC CIP, or System Development Charge Capital Improvement Project list, to reflect a current list of candidate capacity increasing projects.
 This ordinance amends the CIP list which was approved about a year ago. Trang Lam, Property and Business Development Manager from Portland Parks and Recreation, will now tell us more about the ordinance, and we have a substitute. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning, or actually, good afternoon now, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Trang Lam. I'm the Property and Business Development Manager for Parks.
 I'm here today to amend the Park System Development Charge Capital Improvement Plan. About a year ago, Council adopted Ordinance 187150, which updated our Park System Development Charge methodology. It also updated our Code and Charter of 17.13. And then finally, it updated our Park System Development Charge Capital Improvement Plan, or also known as the SDCCIP list.
 to be implemented starting July 1st, 2016. So that's coming right up. As required by state statute, Parks and Recreation maintains a list of capacity-increasing projects intended to address the needs created by growth.
 This SDC-CIP list is a list of projects eligible to be funded with SDC revenue, and it's based on our 20-year parks system improvement plan. So this is an eligible list. It is not a funded list. And our capital improvement plan is actually updated annually.
 So the SDCCIP list is a living document, and per state statute, we may be able to modify it at any time per council approval. Changes to the SDCCIP list does not affect our parks' SDC rates.
 And I do apologize for the exchange in the Exhibit A. My program managers out on maternity leave had a little bit of technical difficulty with the Excel sheet. So I wanted to give you a highlight of what we've done here with the updated 2016 PARCS SDCC IP list. It gives and provides a more detailed list
 categories for our CIP list. So first, you'll see that we have included an SDC zone, which provides for projects that are in central city or non-central city. Then we've provided a column for programs such as acquisitions, buildings and pools, new park development, recreational features, and then trails, roads, and utilities. Okay.
 And then the third and fourth row is our site and project name. And under the project name, it better describes the project itself.
 And then next to that is our percentage of growth, which identifies eligibility of SDC funding for each project. So it could be fully eligible or it could be partially eligible for SDC funding. And then the next couple rows there will be estimate of project cost and timing.
 We've estimated the cost and timing based upon a year 1 through 5, 6 through 10, and then 11 to 20. Project implementation, as you know, is based on many factors, including needs, priorities, opportunities, and other resources such as staffing.
 And because of these uncertainties of these factors, it's impossible for us to estimate with any degree of reliability a more specific timing than the five-year breakdown in the plan.
 Additionally, Parks does do an annual work plan, so we do plan for the following fiscal year, which is reviewed by both our Commissioner's Office and then our Director as well. And then the last two columns, what you'll see is a 20-year total for all projects.
 And finally, the last row is a total of costs for eligibility for SDC funding. So those two rows actually do not match or not the exact number because one is about total project costs and the other one is about what's eligible for SDC funding. $1.2 billion. That is $1.2 billion. Okay.
 it's clear we do not have that much money nor will development necessarily provide anywhere near that but no absolutely yeah it's the universal list um i just have one technical question yes and that is um so the percentage of the park that can be a percentage of the improvement that could be funded by sdc's based on growth is either set at 50 or 100 or actually in one case it's zero which i'm not sure about but um i assume if it's zero it's not on the list um
 Do we get to do this? I assume we get to do this. That is, just pick either 50 or 100. We don't have to be more fine-grained than that in the percentage of the improvement that is STC eligible under the law?
 Currently, what we have right here is a very basic understanding of a project. What we're saying is that either a project is fully eligible or partially. Right now, we're making an estimate of that partial. The placeholder is 50. For Red Tail, we're saying zero at this point because it is an enterprise fund.
 and we may be just funding it with the enterprise funding. So when it gets to a real project, it might not be 50? It will be refined, yes. It might not be 50 or 100. It might be 63 or something. Absolutely, yeah, yes. So when you get to cost estimates, that's when it changes? Yes. All right, now I get it. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thank you. Anything else on this item? Is there anyone that wants to speak on this item?
 If not, then it moves to second reading. Were we voting on the amendment? Oh, we've got to vote on the substitute. Sorry, yeah. So the substitute is before us. Commissioner Fritz moves the substitute. Is there a second? And let's vote to adopt the substitute. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Thank you for your work. Thank you.
 very much so okay so now I boost a second reading and we're recessed till 2 p.m. at which point Commissioner Novick and I will not be here because we're gonna be meeting with the secretary transportation good luck good luck thank you mr. fish will be presiding and the three of you have the have the command of the enterprise we'll see you then everything's teed up Matthew just looking for the signal here they are
 Okay. Council, will you please come to order? Carla, would you please read Council Item 527? Could you do the roll first? I'm sorry. Could you do the roll first? Yes. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Fritz? Here. Hales? Fish? Here. A quorum is present. Carla, we have a single item this afternoon. Council Number 527, could you please read it? Amend fee schedules for building and other permits and site development. Commissioner Dan Saltzman. Yes.
 Thank you, Mr. President. The good news is the Bureau of Development Services finances are looking great, and that shouldn't be surprising given the amount of development activity that's happening here in Portland and the fact that the Bureau of Development Services is 90% supported through development fees. And to that end, the rate schedule in front of you today, BDS, Bureau of Development Services, is actually reducing its fees by 3% in the majority of building and site development permits.
 We're confident this will allow the Bureau to remain financially strong while still providing our customers some relief at the cashier window. And with that, I'll turn it over to Paul Scarlett to walk us through it. Thank you, Commissioner. Good afternoon. I'm Paul Scarlett, Director for Bureau of Development Services. Similar to Commissioner Sossman's statement,
 We're pretty excited. I have notes in front of me. I don't even have to look at them because we're presenting something that's great news. It's a plus to our customers. It's plus to our employees in that we are continuing to show that partnership. The Bureau of Development Services, just to highlight again, our mission is to promote safety, livability, economic vitality. We are in a very strong vital mode in the city of San Francisco.
 Portland in its construction activities. And a fund was set up back in 1988,
 to rely on permit fees to support the operation of the Bureau of Development Services. As you know, that can be a huge plus when times are good, and it can also be a vulnerable situation when times aren't so great. However, one of our focuses remains the same, irregardless, and that's to provide the best level of service possible in all areas of our work. And we're excited with this news that we're able to provide
 provide a relief to our customers in the form of a 3% reduction in building permit fees, site development fees. For clarification, it doesn't apply to other programs such as electrical or plumbing. Those programs are recovering costs. All of our programs are recovering costs, but not as strongly as the building permit program. And...
 We work closely with the Development Review Advisory Council. A subcommittee was formed because there's been concern from the industry about how strong our finances are, which is interesting, but attention is given when it's good and when it's bad. And so we recognize the
 concern and said we would work with you through the budget process when we were with Commissioner Fritz. Same concerns were expressed and said we'll work with you. We're always careful to, of course, if we can make adjustments in favor of reduction, we'll do that, but we have an obligation as part of an operating fund to have a
 a financial plan that looks five years out. So we have to balance. We can do great one year, but if it's not sustainable, we're not going to do that because it wouldn't be prudent of us. So in this case, we've done the analysis, we've worked closely with the industry stakeholders, and able to commit and offer a 3% reduction. It equates to about $700,000 a year. We can afford that. We have a strong, strong, healthy reserve.
 and this can be absorbed. And in fact, I believe it's a showing of good faith, if you will, a good partnership with the church,
 with our customers industry in that they reached out to us just like a council and offered assistance during the recession and allowed and approved a request to increase fees up to 8% which was above cost of living and inflation knowing that we weren't able to manage our operation, balance our operation but said we're good with the increase provided we get the service. So
 Six years later, we're in the reverse, where we're actually making so much money and able to recover all of our costs. And we feel this is one of the great things that we can do. It's a great, I believe, reflection on the Bureau of the City to work closely with our customers. There are some things that we are still holding, like the minimum fees will remain the same. It's about $95.
 and some hourly costs so i you know i can go on but more than anything i i do want to express appreciation to our customers or industry groups to council um drac continues to work with us on a monthly basis and we look at everything that the bureau is doing as well as the other bureaus
 The subcommittee looking at fees, the first, because we said, yes, we're transparent, we're open, let's work together. So BDS is the first piece. Other bureaus, interagency bureaus' fees will be reviewed, as well as system development charges. And so there's a committee that will continue to review options and see what can be forwarded as recommendations to the council. So with that, I'll stop.
 Before I do that, of course, we've got two very astute managers here that keep a close eye on our revenues daily basis. Elshad Adjiv is our finance manager, and Deborah Seward-Morris is our business operations manager, who is responsible for at least
 these functions fall within their portfolio. So I want to thank you guys for all the work you do and your staff in really managing our finances to a point where we can present to Council really good news to our customers and our industry partners and our employees. So with that, I'll turn it over to Deborah to explain some more details and, of course, hope for approval of this ordinance. Thank you.
 So good afternoon. I'm Deborah Siebert-Morris, and as Director Scarlett indicated, I'm the Senior Business Operations Manager for the Bureau of Development Services. Good news is our 3% reduction for our building and site development permit fees. But we do have a couple of modifications, some small modifications in this ordinance as well in our fee schedule that I just wanted to bring to your attention. Okay.
 They basically are to address clarifying language to just make it a little bit more clear and understandable. Also, we've got an area where we are doing a slight increase to do some cost recovery. And then also we have a couple of new state requirements that we needed to address in our fee schedule as well.
 So we are making those modifications. We've also, because we do know that fee changes do impact our customers and their willingness to do business, we have been very proactive in engaging our customers in discussions about our fees.
 And we've gone ahead and we've published this information. It's available on our website. We have also put this in our external newsletter, the Plans Examiner, which has a wide distribution among the development community and our community members. And we've also been working with our customer and other stakeholder groups like the DRAC on these changes as well.
 So, with that, I'm happy to answer any questions that you might have about the ordinance or any of these additional changes.
 Thank you. I have a couple of questions. Thank you for your presentation and thank you for teaching me a lot about being a fee-supported bureau over the time that I was your Commissioner. I'm currently trying to implement more of that in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, particularly in the noise program. I'm surprised the pushback I'm getting that somehow it's different in a different bureau. So thank you for showing us how it's done and for your fiscal responsibility, all three of you. It's been my pleasure to work with you and indeed to put forward the business
 operations continuity plan. So one of my questions is about the reserves and how much is the right level of reserves, how long could we sustain a future downturn in the economy without having the catastrophic loss of staff that we had at the beginning of the recession?
 That's a good question. I appreciate that, Commissioner Fritz. We had to really explore and look at every aspect of our operation during the recession. And one of the big changes we made was trying to right-size that reserve. What is that amount? During the recession, we had a reserve that would
 sustained operation for about two months, maybe. And we reviewed that closely and went from, Alshadi, you may have to help me out here, 15% to 35% to now 50% of our operation, which would then sustain operation for six months, which is consistent with economic trends in terms of what's an inflation recession, how it's defined. It's about six months. And so we want to have
 a reserve balance in place with currently about a $54 million operation. That would be $20-something million. We're about $40 million over that in reserves, so it's really strong. We should be good. But on top of the amount of money, as you know, the politics and decision can come into play, which is one of the reasons we produced a business continuity plan to include some certainty as to what steps would be taken in case of a downturn.
 The reserves are robust enough now to cover six months of continued operations. We have enough to cover more than that. More than that. Right. Certainly six months. And does the DRAC support this proposal? Yes, we presented it to them, and it was in the form of the business continuity plan, which we presented one time, and we went back to the BAC, and we got some more information and presented it again, and they have endorsed it.
 Ms. Blasch said Development Review Advisory Committee. Thank you. Secondly, I remember in last year's budget, there was funding for outreach staff, and particularly looking at equity and how do we serve neighbors who may not speak English and or may not know how to access the permit system and therefore get into trouble because they don't know they're supposed to get one. What's happened to those positions?
 I couldn't tell you for sure. I know they're in the budget. One of the challenges we've been having is filling the positions. Adding positions is fairly easy with our justification around workload and money. I would have to get back to you where those are in the stage of the hiring processes, but we've identified that as...
 Additional and necessary component of the operation is no longer do we just do 20 inspections per day. We want to make sure we're able to serve all of our customers in the community in an equitable manner. And sometimes it means creating some other avenues for doing business, which include outreach and so forth. So we're really big on that. For example, demolition, that's a big one. So we created a position to help with the demolition questions and issues around that because it's so varied.
 So the fees that are encapsulated here support those positions in ongoing funding? Yes. Great. And then the other question is about the – in the budget that we just adopted, we completely removed general fund from the land use services, and so that's – Transferred it to another program. Entirely fee-supported. And then the enhanced safety inspections and the other inspection programs, those are funded with ongoing revenue? Yes.
 I'll show you can speak to this in a limited way. The way I understand it that in the data that you have, I'm Elshad Hajieh, finance manager for the Bureau of Development Services. And in the mayor's proposed budget, and I believe that's what went into adopted budget, there is a one-time transfer of the general fund monies from the land use program to neighborhood inspections. And there is a budget note there that the Bureau will come back
 to the council and report on how land use services program is doing financially and if there is a need to keep that money in neighborhood inspections program on an ongoing basis. Because it's a big hit to land use program. They're losing approximately $700,000.
 So that's why we have that budget note. So we'll be back in the spring and reporting on how Land Use Services Program is going. Right now, those enhanced inspections program and then the EDPEP, those are being funded. Extremely dispersed programs.
 the stressed properties program. Those two programs are being funded by one time transfer from general fund monies from a land use program to NIT until we get back to you guys, to the council in the spring.
 So the general fund is still ongoing just for this year. We're transferring it into the inspections and distress properties program, and then you're going to come back to us on that. So that's all factored into these fees and making sure we can pay for everything that you do right now. That is correct. And there are no changes to land use services fees. They're staying the same. There are no increase or no reduction. Right. There's no change.
 And then my final question, which is a concern, and I know, Elshad, that Claire Adamsick in my office has mentioned this to you. There is a proposed increase in fees for new manufactured dwelling. Yes.
 park homes and the one that particularly concerns me currently it's $56 for each space and what's proposed is that anything from 1 to 10 would be 560 dollars as a permit application fee so it would seem that that would penalize a mobile home or manufactured home park that was just going to add one or two spaces instead of paying 112 dollars that'd be paying 560
 Basically, what we do every year with our fee schedules is we go with a fine comb and we look at the fees that are not at the cost of recovery. And manufacturing, dwelling park and recreational park were identified this year as not being at the cost of recovery.
 So the work that our staff is doing, reviewing the sites, reviewing for space and size of the homes to make sure they're consistent with the building code, it's actually the work is the same as if we do it for one or if we do it for ten.
 So that's why we made that change there, that from one to 10, it will be one price, because the cost that the Bureau incurs to inspect two or 10 is essentially the same. The other thing is that...
 These two are really minor fees. The last manufacturing park that we issued a permit for was in 2006, and I actually have a name for it. One of our managers had an excellent memory, and he remembered. It was Mariner's Gale on the Marine Drive.
 So it was 10 years ago. So it's really a minor change. And the same goes for recreational parks. We just permitted one, actually, on the Alberta, and they had those tiny homes on wills. And, again, the amount of work that we do for one versus 10 is essentially basically the same because, again, they go to the site, they inspect it,
 I understand that. I think as we look at manufactured home parks as an affordable housing option, particularly in some of the ones that we're going to be trying to save, and if they then become more of a long-term option,
 there may be an opportunity to add one or two more spaces that would add one or two more affordable homes. And, you know, $560, as you say, is a minor amount for the Bureau. It's a month's rent for a manufactured home park occupant. So, Commissioner, I would respectfully request that you take another look at that or that we don't make that change, particularly for the small homes.
 Changes in manufactured home parks to keep it at $56 for each space rather than a blanket 1 to 10 is $560. We can make that change. Would you like to offer an amendment? I think I just didn't. I think Commissioner Nassau's going to just second it. So, Council, was that sufficient?
 So my amendment is that for manufactured dwelling park permits, that for 1 to 10 new spaces, it's $56 for each space. Is there a second? Second. All right. It has been proposed and seconded. Carla, would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Aye. Briggs? Thank you, Commissioner. Aye. Biff? Aye. Biff?
 The amendment passes. Other questions, Commissioner Fritz? No, that's it. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, would you like to make another amendment to the recreational park because the fee structure is pretty much the same, so we're consistent? I would indeed, and I so move that we add recreational parks to that amendment. Thank you very much for catching that. I think that can work. Would you like a vote on that, too? Commissioner? So second. Carla, would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Aye. Aye.
 Another reason why I love working with the staff and development services, you know all of the ins and outs of the code and what you need to do and you're very willing to put it on the table and help us out. Thank you. Aye. Aye. The amendment passes. Okay. We now have an ordinance that has been amended and Carla, has anyone signed up to testify? Crystal did. I see her stuff here but I don't. She's not present. Anyone else?
 this is a first reading, so Paul will give you the last word.
 Well, again, thank you for the opportunity to present this good news. We're, again, continuing to be as good a partner as we can with our customers and industry and employees, and we look forward to coming back to a second reading. Again, fee increases is not an issue here. We're reducing fees. There are some fees that haven't been increased the last couple of years, and that's also part of this ordinance. And so...
 With a strong economy, we're just happy to be here presenting good news and looking forward to making the Bureau a better place to live, and that's how it feels anyway, live, work, and conduct business. Thank you, Mr. Director. Thank you, Dan. We are adjourned. Thank you.