New microphones? Am I dreaming or are these new microphones? They're new since we moved back in. So is my microphone on? Okay, very good. That's weird. You had yesterday's file. When does that technically become public with your change orders? That I don't know.
 Can you ask Kristen, Kristen, because we're getting some inquiries, and I think once you filed it, it was technically public, so normally you would have the first hand. Hey, Kristen. Kristen. My questions have gone again. She's on it. All right. Who stole my gavel?
 I, somebody put it over here. Keep an eye on that. Soon enough, Commissioner, soon enough. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, May 10th, AM session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Okay.
 Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. The usual...
 preliminary notice, the purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines which I hope will help everybody feel welcome and respected and safe at the meeting and also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items on the communications calendar must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up,
 Your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up. And when your time is done, the red light will come on.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there's a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting.
 Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If you'd like to show your support for something, a simple thumbs up will do. If you want to express that you don't support something, thumbs down is good. Thanks, and we'll get started with council communications. Carlo, please call the first item.
 Item 455, request of Standard Schaefer to address counsel regarding emergency medical services, fire, and Portland Police Bureau crowd control policy. Good morning. My name is Standard Schaefer, and I'm with Empower Portland. I'm not here to talk about EMTs today. I'm here to talk about recent police actions regarding protests. It's important for you guys to realize that trampling our rights has real, live consequences. The current social science policy.
 shows that riot cops showing up at crowd control escalates the situation. I realize that you guys think that you can just strong-arm people into submission, but unfortunately you're radicalizing a lot of the population. If you want to know where the anarchists come from, the next thing I need to say is that we've had several witnesses coming forward with statements about police entering the march at the start. I've seen video of police marches.
 interfering with protest organizers. Organizers who told them, by the way, when we negotiated this permit, we didn't want cops in the middle of the march. And there they were. The police intimidation is pretty widespread at this point at protests. We had people being pulled over before the 82nd Avenue incident on Saturday.
 being pulled over for petty violations, petty citations, and being told that they are attracting too much attention on their way to the protest. This interference with the right to assembly is a problem. We need to stop interfering with the infrastructure of the protests themselves. We have got cops intimidating street medics. Excuse me, Mr. Wheeler, are you listening? I'm listening. Thank you.
 Journalists are being intimidated. Mobility vehicles are being taken out of the marches, endangering disabled people. Cop watchers are being harassed and detained, and legal observers too. This last one particularly concerns me because if it wasn't for legal observers outside the Portland building during the incident in which I was accused of robbery too, I would probably be in jail.
 So people's lives are being affected by this stuff. And we need to respect the rights of the legal observers. We need to get real training around what's going on at crowd control because the police don't seem to know the rules about cop watchers. They don't know the rules about filming the police. And they don't seem to respect legal observers. These are the people that are the last bastion of hope for us who are worried about police accountability because the city has already given away its authority to rein in the police.
 We're told that phone calls make a difference, but we have police and police commissioners dissembling and not giving accurate information to the media. So when the media
 induced phone calls come in, they're very exaggerated. We're not listening to the people on the ground who actually document and file reports. We're filing public reports every time there's public input available for community input on crowd control. We don't even know where it goes. We never hear back from it. It's time to reopen the crowd control policies and include these kinds of concerns, ones around protecting legal observers. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 456, request of Melanie Plott to address council regarding moving Portland to 100% clean energy and threats to the city from climate change. Good morning. Good morning. It's Plout like sauerkraut. Mayor Wheeler, council, my name is Melanie Plout. I'm an OBGYN physician. I retired last year and decided that climate change was my number one priority, and I've been a volunteer with 350 PDX.
 In the last few months, I've met with staff, all of your staff, to talk about the CARDI gas plants and the transition to renewables. You've probably heard this quote before. The planet isn't dying. It's being killed by people. And those people have names and addresses. Today, I'm asking you to act bravely to be sure that those addresses don't belong to those of us who live here in Portland.
 On June 1st, the council will vote on the 100% by 2050 plan put forth by Mayor Wheeler. I urge you to keep this resolution strong. You may already be hearing from those in industry who say it isn't feasible for one reason or another. This simply isn't true. All it takes is the will to do it.
 In order to keep our beautiful planet livable, we need to enact a fossil fuel freeze as soon as possible and start an immediate transition to renewable energy.
 I'd like you to think about these dates for a minute. First of all, 2050. Knock wood, we will all live that long. And by then, we need to have decarbonized our electricity, transportation, and heating sectors in order to limit warming to 2 degrees. Next, 2100. It sounds like a long time away, but there were babies born yesterday who will likely see that date. I've delivered thousands of babies in my time.
 If we don't act bravely today, those babies might face a world that borders on the uninhabitable. These are not hypothetical people. They are here right now. With luck and hard work, we can bequeath these new Oregonians a world where global warming is actually being reversed, or as Paul Hawken calls it, a drawdown.
 To get there, a recent paper in the journal Science offers a handy rule of thumb we can use. It's sort of like Moore's Law about semiconductors. Here's the rule. We need to cut our CO2 commissions in half every decade. So some more dates. Between 2020 and 2030, we have to cut emissions in half.
 then half again between 30 and 40, et cetera. So to bring this back to the June 1st resolution, I urge you to do three things. Number one, stick to the goal date of 2030 for the clean, renewable electricity sector, not 2035. Other larger cities, such as San Diego, are doing it even sooner. Companies like Apple are moving faster. It isn't radical. We can do it.
 Electricity is about 30% of our carbon emissions, so we have to do this if we're going to meet that rule of thumb I talked about. Don't be seduced by dirty alternatives like nuclear, biomass, waste, incineration, or any kind of fossil fuels. Keep a strict definition. This has to be a just transition. It's going to require big changes. Some of them are going to fall hardest on those who are already suffering the most. We can help with that if we partner with those communities.
 Finally, if you haven't already, please submit your comments to the PUC opposing PGE's plan to build new gas plants at Cardi before the day after tomorrow, Friday. And join us in testifying in front of the PUC next Monday. New fossil fuel infrastructure is completely incompatible with the transition to clean energy. We, the people of Portland, ask you to do what is right and make a rapid and just transition to 100% clean and renewable energy. We're counting on you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for being here. Next item, please. Item 457, request of Joe Walsh to address counsel regarding communication. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. I come not to praise you. I come to warn you. In the third century, part of the Roman Empire collapsed, and we are repeating the same disaster. What does this have to do with Portland? Everything.
 Mayor, you came here into office thinking that you are the person to tame the ongoing protests that was all taking place during the last and also your administration. So I come to warn you so you cannot say we did not know. Forget the fact that we have a Caligula in D.C. What you are doing with the Imperial Guard...
 or as we now call them, the police, is what we should look at. And you used the guard to punish the houseless. You used the guard to arrest those who dared to say no to your illegal orders. Often the DA and the courts have now thrown out the charges against those who you had arrested.
 You have met in private with those who would run this city as a city-state of Greece, or maybe in the Middle Ages, in the House of Medici. Dictator by any other name is still a dictator. You care only for your own prosperity, and if that is in line with the people's needs, we will not suffer. But if there is a conflict, we will and are suffering.
 We ask you to resign your good offices for the sake of the city. All say, Commissioner, you darely have been given our petition under the state and federal constitution to resign your office. We will continue from time to time to update the signatures from your constituents as they grow in number.
 Your guard has now resorted to giving out jaywalking tickets to cop watches and protesters. I would like to thank you for that action. Because what you have done is you've taken people that just wanted justice and are making radicals out of them. And I thank you for that. More and more radicals means we may think about expanding the homeless.
 They're expanding the protests at your houses so your police can keep busy. We are in need of strong local government who will stand with us for sanctuaries and other things, and we do not have it now. Trumpy barbarians are at the gates. We ask you to go with our blessings. Go. And don't thank me.
 Next item, please. Item 458, request of Merrick Bonneau to address counsel regarding settlement agreement arrest record. Good morning. Good morning. I'm a concerned citizen who was brutalized by the police back in 1999. I'm sorry, could I ask you to state your name just for the record? Yeah, my name is Merrick Bonneau. Thank you. And that's not an alias. Thank you, sir. On April 13th, 2016, I was profiled and targeted by plainclothes, homeland security, and DEA agents at Amtrak.
 My Fourth Amendment rights were violated by the use of a police dog. Under the Fourth Amendment, probable cause must be established and a signed search warrant by a judge must be acquired before conducting any search. The use of police dogs to smell passengers and their belongings constitutes a search and is therefore a violation of the Fourth Amendment. I was arrested for not consenting to a search and taken to the federal building. I was interrogated for over six hours and was released without being booked and without paperwork.
 On April 14th, 2016, I got a copy of my arrest record. The records were not updated to show the previous day's arrest, but I was made painfully aware that the police had manipulated my arrest record and put multiple false charges on my arrest record. Also, the city had not followed through with the expunging of my arrest record as per settlement agreement.
 the settlement agreement that the City Council forced through despite my informing the Council that I was under duress at the time and I wish to have them set aside this settlement agreement. Because the City Council forced through the settlement agreement, they are required to follow through with all aspects of that settlement agreement. I have also not received a letter of regret from the City for my police brutality in 99 as per settlement agreement.
 The police manipulating my arrest record and putting false charges on my arrest record is a crime and constitutes police corruption. The city not following through with their settlement agreement constitutes negligence. On April 25, 2016, I got another copy of my arrest record. My race had been changed from black to white, and the Amtrak arrest was labeled detained and released, not arrested.
 I believe this was done to cover up the illegality and severity of my arrest, as well as the unconstitutional use of police dogs to search Amtrak passengers. On April 13, 2003, my IAD complaint rose to city council. During that hearing, Mayor Vera Katz read a false portion of deposition from one of my witnesses, Kay Huxford. I believe this was done in effort to exonerate the police of wrongdoing and to make me look dishonest.
 Falsifying my witness depositions is a crime and constitutes City Council and City Attorney collusion and corruption. The constitutional rights of the people are the foundation that our country is built on and must be upheld no matter what the cost. If they are not, what is the use of having the Constitution?
 What is the point of swearing to uphold and defend the Constitution if as public officials you ignore the Constitution? In efforts to protect yourself and your fellow public servants from liability, the constitutional rights of the people are more important than somebody's job. The Fourth Amendment is in place to keep us safe from unreasonable search and seizure by agents of the government.
 For the record, we are innocent until proven guilty. That right should always be in place. Otherwise, we are no longer living in a free country. We are in a tyranny. Here's the Fourth Amendment. The right of the people...
 to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated, and no warrants shall be issued but upon probable cause supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describe the places to be searched and the persons and things to be seized. That was not done in my case and is a clear violation of the Fourth Amendment rights. Thank you, sir. Next item, please. Thank you.
 Item 4, sorry, 459. Sir, you forgot, yeah, there's an electronic device up here. It looks like a nice one. You don't want to leave that one.
 Thank you. And I'm sorry I'm not familiar with your case, but legal counsel is here, and I'll poke into it. I gave every single one of you council members a packet of information, which included all this information as well as the CD I had of me and Commissioner Saltzman. We had an interview together. So you guys have all the evidence. Okay, I've got that. Great. Thank you. I appreciate that. Next item. I'm sorry, Carla. Thank you.
 459, request of Robert McCullough to address council regarding Washington High School Southeast Community Center. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. It's a pleasure to see you today. Please do not quit. I believe I voted for each one of you, though I've not always agreed with each one of you. Mayor, sometimes...
 The Mayor provides another minute or so for a recognized civic organization like Southeast Uplift. As I listen to Dr. Palt, I hope I said that right, I was hoping you might grant me one minute to comment on our words. Please. Thank you. Dr. Palt said you'll be hearing from industry experts and representatives opposing.
 the adoption of renewables. I am actually a bona fide expert on this issue. A report on that was provided throughout the region, published in, I think, 50 different papers and articles on the dramatic reduction in the cost of renewables. Over the last five years, the cost of renewables have gone down 50%. They're now cheaper than our nuclear plant. They're cheaper than large baseload units.
 There's nothing magic about it. This was simply technology. We've made enough of them. We've gotten good at it. They're cheap. They're safe. They're easy to install. And as Dr. Paul said so much better than I did, we're going to be living here and our children will be. So please give her words all the attention you can because I think she's right. Thank you, sir. I'm now changing my hat to southeast uplift and I'll be very brief. Thank you.
 Many years ago, Hugh Smith, senior partner over at Stoli Boli, brilliant, wonderful lobbyist, mainly on the federal side, said, if you keep talking long enough, people will give in just to stop having to listen to you. As you know, we've been working on the Washington High School Southeast Community Center for many, many years. And we have absolutely nagged you to death. I apologize for this.
 But it's an important issue. Council Clerk, would you put up my one slide? So this is the community center we don't have. And I put it up simply to shame you a little bit. All of you have endorsed the concept at one point or another. I was not in any meetings with Commissioner Udalli on it, but I presume this is the sort of thing you'd like to see for our city.
 So where I am on this is this is our last chance to talk to you before the time runs out on our first right of refusal on 1.3 acres that we would like to keep open. Earlier last week, I was in a boardroom high above Vancouver, British Columbia, with Shell executives and the head of an Indian group.
 Robert Dennis, the secretary of the Hawaii tribe, looked at the executives and said, I don't like excuses. I thought actually about asking him to fly down and give this speech for me. We have a lot of excuses why we haven't moved forward. They're good excuses. Mayor, you explained you didn't have $10 million. I know that. I sit on the appropriate committees. But we've also been told lawsuits. We have answers to the lawsuits. Contract issues. We don't have to pay all the money up front.
 There are solutions to this. So one last time, I would beg you, consider calling the school district and saying, we have 200,000 neighbors who want to save this land. Will you negotiate with us? We have solutions. We have money, actually. And what we need is a chance. Now, I don't expect to win this argument, and I will respect you no less if I lose.
 But I do warn you that I'm very boring, and you have to put up with me for years to come because we need this place for our kids, for our older folks, for our families. And we don't have it. Thank you very, very much. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it. Why don't we go to the consent agenda. Have there been any items pulled off of the consent agenda? No.
 Consent agenda? Yeah. Item 464 is being pulled. Yeah, 464 is actually being returned to the mayor's office, so please call the roll on the remainder. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Udaly. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please. Fischer.
 Item 460, accept the street tree inventory report. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm really happy to introduce this item. It's a spectacular collaboration between the Portland Parks and Recreation's Urban Forestry Division and volunteers all over the city.
 Portland Parks and Recreation's Urban Forestry Department has completed one of the largest inventory of street trees, city trees in the United States to guide management of Portland's urban forest. Street trees are a crucial public asset that provide health and economic benefits to our community. And today we'll hear about the inventory findings from the urban forestry staff.
 and the Urban Forestry Commission's Policy Committee. So I'm delighted to introduce Jen Cairo, the City Forester. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, I'm Jen Cairo, City Forester and Manager of Urban Forestry, which is a division of Parks and Recreation. And I'm the Director of the Urban Forestry Commission.
 And with me today for this presentation are Angie DeSalvo, Urban Forestry Outreach and Science Supervisor and Founder and Manager of the Volunteer Street Tree Inventory. Also, there aren't enough chairs, but Mark Bellow is somewhere here. He is the Chair of the Urban Forestry Commission and also served on the Title XI Implementation Oversight Advisory Committee.
 Jim Labby will be presenting. He is a 2016 recipient of the Bill Nadeau Community Trees Award. He's also been on the Title XI Implementation Advisory Oversight Committee and is currently working with the Policy Committee of the Urban Forestry Commission. And lastly, Dr. Vivek Chandas, director of the Sustaining Urban Places Research Lab at Portland State University and also a member of the Urban Forestry Commission. Our presentation today has two parts.
 Angie and I will fill you in on the street tree inventory and put it within a context, especially for Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udalli, before whom we have not spoken before. And the second part will be our commission partners speaking to the future of street trees in the city. Please ask any questions whenever you will. Urban Forestry's mission statement is to preserve and ensure the urban forest and the services it provides for current and future generations of Portland residents.
 Our work includes the physical full life cycle tree work of tree planting, young and mature tree care, tree removal when necessary, and then planting again in various ways. We also respond to tree hazards and emergencies in city rights-of-way and city properties 24-7 in all weather.
 We monitor and assess the forest and forest services, develop and implement tree policies and programs, such as the city's urban forest management plan.
 We implement city tree regulations through outreach, permitting, and enforcement, and we also foster local community tree knowledge and stewardship. Finally, we work with residents and partners collaboratively to support Portland's trees, including the Urban Forestry Commission, which is 11 residents who volunteer their time and energy to support and advise decision makers on all things trees in the city. In arboriculture, we have a saying, trees are the answer.
 And for many things important to everyone, not just urban foresters, that statement is absolutely true. Research has repeatedly shown that trees are needed in cities for many reasons, and I'm going to just focus on two right now for the sake of time. The first of those is that they improve public health in important ways, including providing cleaner air, taking up carbon dioxide and particulates from the air, and off-gassing essential oxygen.
 They reduce levels of heat-related illness and human mortality from heat. They increase babies' birth weights and reduce the amount of time people spend recovering from illness in hospitals or being out of work. The second service of trees that's essential in cities that I'll stress today is that they are a key climate resilience tool for urban areas.
 They reduce summer heat in homes and in streets, and the loss of trees correlates closely with higher temperatures in summer and urban heat island effect. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration promotes urban forests as green infrastructure to fight the effects of climate change. Chicago speaks of, quote, fortifying the urban forest as a strategy to counter climate change, and of course trees play a prominent role in Portland's own climate action plan.
 I want to note that these issues often disproportionately affect people of color, the less affluent, and underserved communities and cities, including Portland. These residents increasingly need these and other tree services. Our urban forest is essential infrastructure, no less important than the streets, power lines, water pipes, sewer systems, bridges, and the like. Or another way to look at it is what would Portland be without its trees?
 So Angie will now speak to one component of the city's urban forest, street trees. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Angie DeSalvo. I'm with Urban Forestry, and I'm so pleased to be here today to bring you the results from our street tree inventory completed last year.
 Just to clarify, today I'm talking about trees in the public right-of-way. Our urban forest has many components, our private trees, our park trees, but here we're talking about right-of-way trees. Those trees that line our streets, the first to greet you when you walk out your home, they buffer our transportation corridors, and they're also the primary way that our residents in the city interact with nature.
 And we went about inventorying these trees with a large group of volunteers. And I want to first emphasize that the maintenance of these trees is done by the adjacent property owner. So keep that in mind as we go forward with this.
 In Portland, we have a long history of urban forest management, and our very first inventory was conducted in 1938 by the Works Progress Administration. And then again in 1976 by the Parks Department, and most recently we completed our largest effort to date last year. And the city has grown quite a bit since those first two inventories.
 reliable data about what's happening with our street trees so that we can adequately manage and maintain that very important resource. And so this data is driving our management.
 Now, I mentioned that street trees are maintained by the adjacent property owner. So in Portland, of course, we have to involve our residents in collecting this data. So we could have gone out and just collected the information, but instead we opted to partner with our communities. And so we set about neighborhood by neighborhood, talking to people, asking them to come with us on this journey to learn their trees, help us to map and measure neighborhoods.
 collect data, and do this together. And over six years, we collected information on 220,000 street trees in all 95 neighborhoods. 1,300 people assisted us, and most of these had never volunteered with parks before. This was their first opportunity and interaction to work with urban forestry or the city.
 And together they gave 17,000 hours. And that's the equivalent of one person out there walking the street every day for about eight and a half years. So we're incredibly proud of the community coming together to assist us with this project.
 Now, anytime you use volunteers, when you are collecting data, you have to design your project carefully. And we made sure to collect enough information, but to allow it to be accurate enough so that we could teach people to ID and collect information. And so we collected information on what type of trees, the species, their size or diameter at breast height. Here you see two folks out measuring the size of this nice street tree.
 We gave them a condition rating, good, fair, poor, or dead. We mapped their location, and we also collected information on the site. Now, we had an excellent accuracy rate, 95%. We were just cited in urban forestry and urban greening as one of the highest for volunteer inventories, and I really give a lot of credit to our professional arborist community. At the hundreds of work days that we held, we had two volunteer arborists, usually on bikes,
 writing about making sure that our volunteers were collecting accurate information. And so without their assistance, I'm sure our accuracy rate would have dropped. But together as a team, we collected great information. Can I interrupt for a second? Because when I saw that image when they were previewing this, I said, oh, so then you have to, they're measuring the circumference, so then you have to go home and do the whole 2 pi r or whatever it is.
 And in fact, the wonders of modern science, they have double-sided tape measures, one of which is the actual inches and the other converts it to diameter by doing the circumference switch. So nice to think. Yep. Two measurements, one tape. You got it. And I will stress that...
 The way that we designed this project, we had two goals. One was to go out and collect great information to get this data, but the second was to create an education project to outreach and to really work with people to get out in their communities. Both of those goals are mandated to us through our urban forest management plan. So we accomplished both.
 This is a map of where we worked. Each of those green dots is a tree. You will notice that we have more trees towards the center of the city. On the west side, you see a bit fewer, but that's because this particular protocol is not geared towards natural wooded areas. And so most of our street trees are located in that central area of the city. And as you move east, you see that they become fewer and farther apart.
 Some highlights from our key findings. Looking at that map, you'll see that our trees are not equitably distributed. I'm going to talk more about that in just a moment, but they're not located evenly throughout the city. However, we have abundant opportunities for planting. Over 90,000 sites are open and available, ready for trees right now.
 We're overly reliant on just a handful of tree types. Maples, Acer, 27% of our street trees are maples. Plums and cherries in the prunus genus are also highly overrepresented. This leaves few very large native and evergreen trees. Those trees that are very important for providing services, those are few and far between. Okay.
 And many of our trees are young. We've had some very successful planting efforts, but they are not necessarily growing and reaching those larger size classes. So I'll highlight a handful of those. So let's talk about distribution. This is a map of the city that shows where trees are occupying available sites. So the darker green colors, over 70% of the sites in those neighborhoods have street trees.
 As you move further east, we see a lower stocking level. So in some neighborhoods, less than 35% of the available sites actually have trees in them. And this is a big concern, especially in East Portland, where many of our lower-income communities are, our communities of color. They don't have access to those same street trees. So keep this in mind. This is an issue that we're tackling. Thank you.
 We also need to have more diversity in the palette of trees that are growing so that we are more resilient to pests and pathogens and a changing climate.
 So this is a map of the Hollywood neighborhood, and just as an illustration, we put trees that are vulnerable to four key pest and pathogens in red and those that are resistant in green. And we chose two pests and pathogens that are here, Dutch elm disease and bronze birch borer, and two that we think will be coming soon, emerald ash borer and Asian longhorn beetle. Imagine if Hollywood lost all of those vulnerable trees at the same time. That would be catastrophic for that neighborhood.
 And the best way to deal with this is to plant a diverse palette.
 We have very few of our largest trees. So this wonderful bigleaf maple, a native tree here on the left, much larger than 18 inches in diameter. But when you look at 18 inches as a cutoff, only 15% of our street tree population is of that size. And trees, when they're larger, that's when they are providing most of their benefits. 42% of our street trees are small. They're less than 6 inches in diameter. They're newly planted, they're young, or they're small-form trees. Okay.
 and a little bit of maintenance for these young trees, making sure that they are mulched and watered and structurally pruned when they're young will go a long way in keeping that investment going, ensuring that they're healthy, and getting them to those larger size classes. Okay, so those are a couple highlights of the info, but what are we doing with this information?
 So anytime you run a citizen science project, your participants are not going to let you wait until the project is over. They're not going to wait six years for us to wrap up all of the data and then make some changes. But we had enough great information early in the project to make significant changes in our management and policy. As an example, we've updated our approved tree list. We've added in those large-form, evergreen, native trees to give more diversity.
 We've also added planting targets for our large permit holders. So, for example, Bureau of Environmental Services has been planting more large-form evergreen and natives. And we've also set targets for planting in low-income and low-canopy neighborhoods. So we've seen great improvements there.
 And we're trying to tackle this issue of equitable distribution. So we've contracted with Portland State University to help us develop a citywide planting strategy so that we can really get into and understand how to better serve all Portlanders and to really bring trees where they're needed without adding undue burden, especially with that financial piece because you plant a street tree, the adjacent property owner is the one maintaining it.
 So that's how we've used data and policy. All of our data is available online. There's a map. It's open data. It's being used by research institutions, by residents, by universities, other bureaus. It's all available online.
 One of the best parts of the project has been that our volunteers have stayed with us. And so this map in green shows you where we have active tree teams. So all of these groups that conducted the inventory, they're still coming back to work in their communities.
 and they're planting, they're pruning, they're talking to their neighbors, they're doing great work out there. As an example, on the lower right, this is the Albina Neighborhood Tree Team near the Mississippi District. This is their second year removing and replacing dead and dying cherry trees for low-income residents. So they received a grant, and they were able to replace 40 trees this year, all done by volunteers. Very proud of their work.
 And I mentioned the need to maintain young trees, and we are tackling this with our partners. Urban Forestry does workshops where we work with volunteers to prune young trees. We have a community tree care program in partnership with Friends of Trees and some funding from Bureau of Environmental Services. And together we're pruning about 2,000 young trees a year, although that's a drop in the bucket when you look at, say, the 90,000 trees that are in those smaller size classes. But we found a good place to start with the resources that we have.
 So in closing, I'd just like to say thank you to all of our volunteers and our communities who really did this work for us. People came out to help their community, to improve their urban forests, to meet their neighbors, to do something positive right where they live, and they've really, truly made a difference. Thank you. Thank you. Council, I just want to mention that Angie started this program just starting with one neighborhood and has been able to expand it across the city, and we're very proud of you. Thank you. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you.
 Did you elaborate on policy solutions for addressing the issue of affordability for low-income and fixed-income homeowners? You kind of touched on that. I just see that as a, I mean, that's obviously a driving factor behind why we don't have more trees as we move further out. And we have thousands of low-income homes.
 who may not be able to afford to maintain, remove, repair their sidewalk, and then if they have to, they really don't want to replace that tree and do it all over again. It's a big issue, yes. Yeah.
 In terms of city code, that responsibility is assigned to the adjacent property owner, and we do have limited resources to deal with that directly. And I think the folks that are going to speak next are going to address that directly. And so with the limited resource that we have, we're trying to work around some of that, but without the funding or direct resource, there's not much that we can offer.
 Very well said, Angie. And I'll just add to that, Commissioner Udili. We know for a fact that the adjacent property owner having to maintain the street tree is an obstacle to tree planting for understandable reasons. And I know Friends of Trees and BES in their street tree planting program have run into that. So at this point, we'll turn it over to the Urban Forestry Commission members who will speak to you about the future of street trees. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Mark Bellow. I'm chair of the Urban Forestry Commission.
 Merrill Reddish is our chair of our policy committee. And Jim Labby and Vivek Chandras will be joining us to make this very brief presentation. First of all, for...
 Very first of all, thank you very much, and thank you for putting resources into our urban forest. On a personal note, while these folks come up here, I'll let you know that I've been a city planner for the city of Portland since 1976. I was liaison to the Forestry Commission in the 80s, and where we were and where we've become is an amazing journey, and we should be proud of ourselves. I just want to say that. I am very proud of us.
 So having said that, I've been very pleased as chair to participate and see the Forestry Commission create a policy committee that has taken on a topic that has bedeviled us for a century, literally. Unlike Pasadena, California, which addressed this issue in 1898, we are still struggling with this issue. And that issue is what do we do about trees in the right of way? I want to point out that...
 Both the PowerPoint presentation and this two-pager talks about problems and solutions, but all of the items on the second page are not tasks for the city council, but actually result from the incredible knowledge that our members have as they start working through this in collaboration with Friends of Trades Verde, Johnson Creek Watershed Council, Audubon, and many other organizations. So we've given this a lot of thought, and we realize now's the time
 for us to have an inter-bureau conversation, and it's the city council that can put that into motion. Finally, I want to say that...
 We always invite anyone to attend our Forestry Commission meetings. There are Thursdays, Thursday morning. I know you're very busy. But come any time or any issue that anyone on the council would like the Forestry Commission to address specifically, we are more than open working with our commissioner, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Thank you. Hi there, Mayor Wheeler, City Council. My name is Jim Labby. I'm going to present a proposal today. Okay.
 I don't want to repeat, but we're here today, of course, because street and public right-of-way trees are a valuable public asset, and Portlanders care a lot about them. I've lived and worked in all parts of the city, and I've experienced this over my career. Trees are uniquely situated. Street trees are particularly important because they're uniquely situated in the landscape along our transportation corridors to mitigate the environmental impacts, mostly from cars and driving,
 and also provide, they're really critical to helping create the vibrant, walkable, more compact neighborhoods that are really core to our CityCom plan and the regional plans. And these benefits are only going to grow as our city grows more dense.
 This is recognized in a variety of plans, recent plans, the comp plan, the climate strategy plan, going back to the watershed management plan. All these plans and more recognize the need for trees and other green infrastructure throughout the city, but especially along Portland's densest corridors and our dense centers.
 They also call for an equitable distribution of trees across the city. And as Vivek is going to mention, our urban heat island impacts our most vulnerable populations along these key transport corridors and in these tree-deficient neighborhoods. And I always like to point out that we're farthest behind in meeting our tree canopy goals in the public right-of-way, in the public right-of-way and in our industrial lands. So...
 So what is the problem? There's really two problems. You've already heard about the street tree maintenance issue and the consequences of that. In addition to the equity issues that that raises, there's a backlog of trees in poor condition, and this tree damage is a public safety issue.
 It also increases the damage during storm events like we recently had, and that's a burden both to residents but also to the bureaus. There's an extra cost, particularly to PBOT, in terms of dealing with storm impacts. There are other issues. We can't use capital funds for street trees if we're not maintaining them in most cases. The other big problem is we are needlessly losing—
 large, healthy trees, and street tree planting sites in the process of making street improvements and in development situations. And there's a lot of case studies of this. I wish I could go into them here today. But basically it comes down to the fact that there's a lot of competition for space in the public right-of-way, and trees are really at the end of the line in consideration. And that's not because there's bad people in the city that don't like trees. It's because we have outdated policies...
 procedures and code requirements that really force the unnecessary removal of trees and the removal of tree planting spaces. So looking at this issue and updating our codes and policies is really critical. And this also is an equity issue. Where you see some of the innovative things happening with street trees, and there are out there, it's in neighborhoods where
 the neighbors are loud and vocal. And they compel the city to do these innovative things. In the parts of the city, like East Portland, where you don't have that capacity, that's where you really see trees taking a hit and we're losing a lot of these large, healthy trees. So there's an equity issue on this side of the problem as well. So why now? Why address street trees now? Yeah.
 Really three main reasons. First of all, we've just made this huge investment in inventorying this asset that we're not maintaining, the street trees. We have countless numbers of people involved out in their community thinking about this. Now is a good time for a big look at street trees and addressing some of these problems.
 Over the last few years, we've also started making investments in planting street trees ever since the watershed plan. And we've made some progress. But if we don't maintain these young trees, they're not going to grow into large, healthy trees, especially in our undertree neighborhoods. And we're going to have more of the cost that we mentioned earlier.
 You know, there is one city and Friends of Tree pruning workshop. It's a volunteer street tree maintenance thing, but it's not going to cut the mustard when you talk about over 200,000 street trees across the city. The other thing, this is looking at street trees and public item trees right now is really timely, given a number of ongoing and current planning efforts, including the citywide street tree strategy that PSU and Urban Forestry are working on, the Urban Forestry Plan update.
 Future Title XI code updates, we know there's more to do related to reforming Title XI and updating it. But there's also a lot of, as we update the zoning code and implement the comp plan, there's a lot of problems that are outside Title XI that impact trees. A lot of barriers to preserving and planting street trees, as I mentioned.
 PBOT has a number of projects that they're working on right now which align nicely with this. The Living Streets Program, the update of the city's right-of-way management manual, and then you have these community efforts like the Jade District Green Project on the community level that are focused on street trees. Lastly, the third most important reason why now is an investment in street trees is really investment in local jobs and green development, and I know that's a high priority right now in this city.
 We have a real chance to build on existing programs. Verity has this really cool program with the city where they employ low-income people to plant and establish street trees in low-income neighborhoods. A targeted street tree maintenance program could build on a program like that and expand it to deal with the maintenance issues.
 I'm going to skip ahead here and just say, so the ask, our proposal, the gist of it is really to convene a collaborative process that we ultimately think needs to be a task force, inter-bureau task force with community stakeholders to assess the problems of maintaining and stewarding street trees, investigating public finance to begin the city taking a role, more active role in that.
 and addressing and updating the codes and processes related to right-of-way improvements and development to better integrate street trees into our streetscapes. We know this is going to need key bureaus involved and stakeholders. It's going to need some facilitation and technical services to, for example, look at what other cities are doing, what are the financing options for street tree maintenance, etc.,
 What are the co-changes that happen to do a street tree maintenance program? And we're not going to do this all at once. I think we're not going to adopt a street tree maintenance program next year even, but we can begin to start developing one in a targeted way. So...
 I think as a first step, our ask today is really that the City Council convene a work session, maybe this summer after the bureaus are reassigned, after the budget process is farther along, that can look at this issue more clearly. We need you to direct your key staff, your staff to be involved and in the bureaus.
 And our hope is that if we had a work session this summer, we could kind of delve into these issues and hopefully initiate a project in September. And with that, I'm going to pass the...
 to Vivek who's going to close out. Just if I might interrupt for a second. I'm mindful, colleagues, that we asked for 30 minutes for this presentation, and we're now over. This proposal and request for a work session came out of the Urban Forestry Commission and our community partners. So I appreciate the fact that you're here, and if you could keep going on explaining what you are asking. Thank you.
 Okay, very briefly. I understand we're over. My name is Vivek Chandas. I'm a professor of urban studies and planning at Portland State University. Mayor Wheeler, city commissioner. Just three quick points. One is that we are very lucky. Our lab has been conducting research on the trees of Portland.
 taking from machines that fly up in the air, taking pictures of the ground, as well as now this robust street tree inventory that we have. And we're bringing those two things together to really come up with a story that we are quite lucky that there were a number of people, city staff,
 leaders as well as community members that planted trees early on decades ago, and we're now reaping the benefits of it. We've seen, in fact, as Jim was bringing up, a number of reductions in urban heat. We've seen upwards of 13 degrees of reduction in urban heat from one neighborhood to another, and in some cases, especially with low-income neighborhoods, that could be a matter of life and death, as we've seen in Chicago, Missouri, France, all over the planet. And with a changing
 With changing temperatures across the globe, we're going to see these impacts most acute in cities. Second, we're also just learning about a number of these feedbacks that we would have not necessarily foreseen even just one decade ago. For example, we have just found out the relationship between urban heat, tree canopy, and the amount of money individuals pay for their energy bills. We've...
 I've been able to document that trees are one of the single most important factors in the built environment in terms of the amount of money people are contributing to their energy costs, particularly during summer when a lot of air conditioning is used. And as the planet warms, we're going to be seeing those impacts on communities' pocketbooks.
 And last, I just want to quickly reiterate that this inter-bureau task force proposal, from my point of view, and again, being outside of the city, has been illuminating for me, in part because I've gotten to understand how different bureaus work. And much like our disciplines in the university, which I have been...
 vehemently trying to get us to work together across disciplines, I'm eager to see an intrabureau communication process play out. I think it'll do three things. I think first off it'll
 improve collaboration across the bureaus. Second, I think it'll improve communication across the complexities of how we actually implement Title XI, which I've recently come to understand in a lot more detail. And I think it'll also just fundamentally make Portland a much more livable place, especially in these times of a climate crisis. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Excellent presentation. Public testimony? Yes, we have eight people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Doug Klotz,
 Barbara Wharton and Brian Simons. So I hate to do this. I don't like shortening public testimony, but given that we are way off the schedule and we have three times certain today, could I ask everybody to try and wrap their testimony up in two minutes each? Thank you, sir. Hi. My name is Doug Klotz. I'm a longtime advocate for pedestrians and the urban community.
 environment. I support the street tree assessment asset management strategy. Trees in the right-of-way, as Jim Levy noted, are increasingly an important place to plant trees, especially with the increasing density and lot coverage that we'll be getting on centers and corridors as well as downtown in the Pearl District.
 And we need that growth. We need the housing on the corridors where you can ride transit and not be polluting with your auto driving. So we need the trees there, and we need them in the right-of-way. We need better coordination among the many uses of the right-of-way. We have electrical vaults, water meters. There are a lot of...
 buildings going in right now in the Pearl District and in downtown where you'll have 100 foot of frontage here, 100 foot there, you get one tree where the code would call for 10 trees there because, well, there's this fault and there's that fault. There's all these specs for how far things have to be apart. We need to look at all those specs, see if some of those can be changed. Can we have shorter street lights so you don't have to keep the trees so far away from them?
 It's going to shine under the trees. And we especially need to work on getting trees at intersections. I mean, that's where the heat islands really are and then there's all these obstacles to getting trees that actually shade an intersection. That will need me working in concert with traffic engineers because I've been working
 in concert with or against traffic engineers for the last 25 years. But, yes, traffic engineers are critical in this fight. I also want to note that the city is right now planting trees in those underserved areas in East Portland, which are also underserved as far as having no sidewalks or other pedestrian facilities. And some of the trees are going in right where the sidewalk would be. And the city has acknowledged that, well, yes, the trees would have to come out if there were a sidewalk to go in.
 And that doesn't seem like the right way to do it. Like, we need to determine where the trees can go that will not interfere with the future sidewalk. But I think these trees are a very important aspect of the city that we need to – we need to –
 make sure that we're getting as many and as large of the ones as we can. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Barbara Wharton. I'm a resident of Concordia neighborhood. I've been a volunteer with, um, urban forestry as the street tree steward for the past eight years. And I'm also a member of the Concordia tree team, which was the first neighborhood that embarked on the inventory for street trees. Um,
 I've seen in the past eight years so many improvements as it relates to urban forestry here in Portland, but I continue to see so many opportunities that we haven't yet seized yet.
 I walk through my neighborhood, and just as a resident, there's a lot of development in Concordia, and I see houses coming down, houses going up. And at the very point where street trees are planted, I see the wrong tree being planted. So we're not seizing that opportunity for future. So I think that as far as...
 homeowners for street tree planting developers are actually the most important homeowner in the city. And we haven't connected with them successfully yet. The other thing I see is with the data from the street tree inventory is those underserved neighborhoods that need trees as well. And now we have this data available.
 And it seems like the most perfect time to start addressing and letting that data direct future efforts. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. I'm Brian Symes, and I'm a retired architect from the Housing Authority of Portland. And I am the first volunteer for the Friends of Trees. Wow. In 1989, I was at 730 in the morning in the basement of this building. Wow.
 I was a witness of Richard Seidman asking Bob Nadeau for $5,000 to start the Friends of Trees. And that is the earthquake created the tsunami that we have seen here today. Good volunteers are the best thing in the city. And when they get involved with the Friends of Trees and making our city better, it's like buying a five-penny acorn and ending up with a $10,000 worth tree.
 So I encourage this city council to, you know, go on with this inventory, create involved citizens in their trees. And as an architect that still applies for hundreds of permits in the city,
 When I have a client that knows the tree code, that knows their trees on the property, it makes my job and all the BDS people down there at Southwest 1900, it makes their job so much easier. All the zoning people that I see, all the PBOT people, all the BES people that I see every time I apply for a permit, it makes it a wonderful city that everybody knows what the worth of trees are,
 And you guys are responsible for that. Thank you very much. Thank you. And that's a great story. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. Next one, please. Our Daniel Newberry, Elizabeth Hildebrand, and Scott Fogarty. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Daniel Newberry, and thank you for the opportunity to speak before you. I'm a member of the Urban Forestry Commission and Executive Director of Johnson Creek Watershed Council, and we're very proud to have been part of the street tree inventory for the past couple of years. I think everybody's kind of on board with knowing what the benefits of trees are, especially the health benefits. Yes.
 the trees are really what make in a lot of ways what makes Portland Portland, makes it livable and we've got a lot of development pressure coming up and it seems to me as if
 Whenever there's any new kind of development that involves the right-of-way, street trees are often the first casualty. And I think it's important to point out, although I think it's obvious to everybody, that when a large street tree comes down, it really takes decades for a new tree to come up and grow in its place and really reap those benefits. So I think it's really important that this proposal that we're putting forward today to have all the city departments coordinate –
 I think it's really important because we need to really prevent those big street trees from coming down if there's a way to do that. And I think that getting the departments together is the way to do it. You know, the city bureaus are really good at completing their missions. But so many times, you know, in any big bureaucracy, everybody gets kind of siloed. And in a lot of ways, street trees end up being the sort of casualty that fall between the cracks. Earlier today...
 Commissioner Udaly, you had asked about the whole equity issue with street trees, and I think just based on some research I've done that there are some good examples in other large cities around the country. We're not the first city to have to deal with issues of equity when it comes to paying for street tree maintenance. There are some other cities, Washington, D.C., and San Francisco, come to mind as some really good examples of how this has been dealt with. Okay.
 I guess that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. My name is Scott Fogarty. I'm Executive Director with Friends of Trees. And I just want to first say, acknowledge Portland Parks and Recreation and the Urban Forestry team for joining this inventory and for Bureau of Environmental Services for investing in our urban forest. This is a great asset to the city. At Friends of Trees, we, to address Commissioner E. Daly,
 We take pride in the fact that we are trying to increase the urban canopy in the marginalized neighborhoods. We have our Greening the East Side program where we specifically focus on outer east side Portland for the majority of our tree planting events. Okay.
 And I can only say that we are thrilled that there is hopefully going to be inter-bureau team where we can come together with stakeholders and really address the issue of the maintenance of our trees over the long term. Daniel mentioned other cities outside of this state, but other cities within the state,
 notably Eugene, for example, are responsible. The city is responsible for trees from planting to maintenance events when we have big issues like this winter when you have big trees coming down and causing property damage and even death.
 humans. So we very much encourage the city council to form this task force and I know it's not going to happen overnight. It's going to take a little time. We hope we're at the table for that discussion because we do have a connection to the community very directly and we really appreciate the fact that
 bureaus will be working with each other and organizations like ours and Johnson Creek Watershed Council to come up with a solution to this problem, this ever-growing problem, no pun intended, of trees that need maintenance over time.
 Thank you very much for your time and for consideration of this task force. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Good morning. Hi. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Elizabeth Hildebrand. I'm a resident in northeast Portland, and I am a member of the Concordia tree team, as well as being a graduate from the 2012 tree stewarding program. And when I first heard of this task force, the first thing that came to my mind was,
 A character from a Dr. Seuss story, and I'm not sure exactly who it was, but who speaks for the trees? The Lorax. Was it the Lorax? Yeah. Okay. And I thought, okay, well, maybe this needs to start kicking in now. I grew up in Detroit, and I watched the urban canopy get destroyed by Dutch Elm Disease. It went from being a beautiful, leafy city to...
 almost the decimation which remains the same now today because of lack of planning. So right now in Portland, there's so much growth that's happening and buildings are going up, trees are going down, that it is the perfect time for people to focus on the trees in the city. And fortunately,
 can find the energy and focus that's needed to keep moving forward with this, the great true canopy that we have. Thank you. Thank you. And the last two who signed up are Mary Vogel and Michael Durham. Hey, guys. Good morning. Morning. Morning. Good morning. Michael, do you want to start? Go ahead, Mary. No, you first. Okay.
 I'm Mary Vogel and Oregon Walks has already submitted our written testimony, so I won't repeat what's in that. But in any case, I did want to say about myself, I also participated in the inventory for downtown and I've been testifying to the Planning and Sustainability Committee recently
 a commission rather, for at least the last four years on the Central City 2035 plan and the West Quadrant plan about the need for better street trees downtown. I want to remind you that Jeff Speck's
 walkable city. Subtitle is How Downtown Can Help Save America One Step at a Time. We do need to start with our downtown and expand out as well. Downtown and Old Town in the PSU study were also in the low street tree, low income neighborhoods
 survey. So I guess I want to request that they not be left out of the target, though I strongly support also targeting the east side neighborhoods who are in a similar position.
 Yeah, I think that's pretty much what I need to say in addition to I urge you to read our testimony. Also, that we, as Oregon Walks, are very interested in participating on an advisory committee on this topic of the street tree right-of-way. Thank you very much. Yeah. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. How are you doing, Ted? Hey, my name is Michael Groh. I'd say I'm a little relaxed. I'm here to speak for the trees, but I just think that's already been done. Anyway, I'm here to speak for the trees and the data. We need to pay attention to, in our planning, and it would be really important to include the trees, the bees, and the invertebrates in our planning data.
 Because there are places in China right now, entire provinces, where there are no trees and there are no bees. And we don't want to be that place. So I don't need to really go into the details of that, but that speaks to where we're going. We need as much information as we can gather on the trees, both the trees on people's properties, the trees on private property, public property, and on rights of ways. Yeah.
 to wit. I suggest you guys look into Google and look into Big Data and Hadoop. Hadoop and HBase is a good solution for this, and it's not an expensive solution. You can actually get individual people, citizens, to populate the data along with the data you already have. I don't want to take too much of your time. I know you're busy, but thank you for your time. Have a nice day. Do you have any questions? Thank you. That's a great suggestion. As you know, we're...
 The data is important, and I like your idea. It dovetails with a conversation we had about open data last week, and so it's actually a good dovetail to that conversation as well. Thank you, sir. Thank you both for your testimony. Commissioners, any further discussion before we entertain a motion? Yeah, I have a question of the sponsor. Yes. Commissioner Fritz, this is on, right? I turned it on. It's a little confidence she has in me for good reason.
 So Mayor Reddish gave us a briefing on this issue at the time that I was also the commissioner in charge. Mayor, you are now the commissioner in charge. I'm sorry, Michael and Mary, you guys can go back to your seats. You don't have to sit there. I apologize. Thank you. So technically now the mayor is the commissioner in charge of all the bureaus. And just speaking for the Bureau of Environmental Services, we were –
 very impressed with the presentation and we were eager to join some kind of inter-bureau task force. And we also thought the suggestion that there be a work session to scope it out and to have everyone at the table was a good idea. And so, Commissioner Fritz, as part of accepting this report, I know they're unrelated, but I would like to see if we can get a consensus to have that work session and have you make some kind of a motion in connection with accepting the report. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you. I mean, each one of us has a bureau, at least one, or did until a couple of weeks ago, have bureaus that are involved in this issue. And as my colleagues will remember, the Urban Forestry Department and the Bureau of Development Services have identified about 45 different high-profile challenges in Title XI. And at Collective Livestock Council, we didn't have the...
 resources of time and money to do that whole fix. So I would hope that each one of us, and Mayor, as you are now in charge of all the bureaus, you can direct the bureaus to do this, and I would very much appreciate it if you would. Very good. I'll entertain a motion. Move to accept the report. Commissioner Udaly, did you have something to say first? No. Okay, very good. Move to accept the report. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Thank you.
 Fish? So that was an outstanding presentation. Thank you to the Urban Forestry Commission, the Urban Forester, and all the folks who took time to testify. I'm a former Portland Parks and Rec Commissioner in Charge and now have the honor of being in charge of BES. And that means I've had some role in what we call the big three here, because if you add PBOT, those are the three infrastructure bureaus that probably have the most immediate influence
 impact over trees. I know Mayor Reddish couldn't be here today, and she's in a warm place, hopefully, with her family. But I do appreciate the briefing we got, and I think the vision is very compelling. And so, Mayor, I would urge that we schedule a work session in September and direct the relevant bureaus to participate.
 If I continue to have the honor of serving as the commissioner in charge of BES, we will fully participate. And I just wanted to share a couple of numbers to add to the outstanding presentation we had. So I asked my team for some context about TREES and our work, since we are the city's environmental services utility. Okay.
 Over the past nine years, working with great partners like Friends of Trees and others, we've planted more than 45,000 trees, 30,000 of which were in the city's right-of-way.
 and each year we plant about 2,700 new trees. Now, I notice in one of your slides you take a crack at quantifying the replacement value. We're treating it like infrastructure. So what's the value of our canopy? Well, here's a couple of numbers that we use. These are back of the envelope. If I was in court, I couldn't prove them, but I think they provide some context. Okay.
 Portland's street trees manage about 150 million gallons of stormwater every year. Think about that. If they didn't, we'd be talking about Big Pipe II or much more gray. So thank you, street trees, for managing about 150 million gallons of stormwater every year. And what's the savings just to our rate payers, not our taxpayers over here in property taxpayers?
 But just our rate payers, we estimate in excess of $4 million a year in avoided stormwater management costs. So the next time you see a tree in the right-of-way, say thank you because you're saving us money. We agree that more trees and healthier, better-maintained trees in the right-of-way.
 It will help us meet the city's sustainable stormwater management and watershed health goals. And we also agree that unless we have a collaborative process to look at the equity issues, we're just not going to move the needle as we should in East Portland. So we look forward to fully participating in a future process. And Commissioner Fritz, who's been really the champion moving this thing forward, thank you for your leadership, and I'm proud to support the report. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank Urban Forestry for putting together this and the many volunteers who helped do the street inventory report. I guess the one takeaway, I'm always searching for interesting trivia. Correct me afterwards if I'm wrong, but...
 The takeaway is we have 220,000 street trees right now, and we have room for 93,000 more. So that's great. And I appreciate the work that's gone on, and I'm fully supportive of forming a task force to see if we can figure something out better to maintain our street trees. Aye. Udailey.
 Thank you for the presentation, and thank you to all the volunteers for their service to our community. I am looking forward to further conversations on the issues you've raised today and support the idea of a work session. Aye. Great. Thank you.
 Thank you, everybody, for being here, especially our volunteers and our staff, and for the succinct report that especially our Urban Forestry Commission and others gave us. We're actually only about 15 minutes over the time, and it's interesting that this suggestion from the community is the one that I believe I have universal support for. So, Mayor, I would like you to...
 direct all the bureaus to cooperate with this. I'd like to see a work session in June or the beginning of July just to scope it out so that we can then be prepared in September.
 We all received multiple emails after we had what we thought was a relatively simple clarification that adjacent property owners are indeed responsible for their trees. We all experienced a lot of concern about that from our community during the recap process, the code updates. So we pulled that piece back. It's definitely something that's really important and important.
 no matter who looks after these street trees, someone has to pay for the maintenance, for the removal if they fail. So it's really urgent that we figure out what's the most equitable way to manage our wonderful street tree inventories.
 So I do thank the Urban Forestry Commission and the Policy Committee, Angie DeSalvo, who, as I said, started this whole thing off in Concordia, and now it's citywide in all 95 neighbourhoods, Brian Lando and Jen Cairo.
 The 1,300 volunteers who helped with this amazing inventory were so proud of it. And I noticed Roberta Jortner, who's like Mark Bellow, a retiree from the city of Portland, still volunteering her time and guiding this process. And she was very instrumental in getting the Title XI passed.
 I'm just proud to work with people who, whether they're getting paid or not, are very willing to come together to make our city better. And I've often said that Friends of Trees is about more than just planting trees. And I really enjoyed the lunch yesterday to celebrate and wish that Scott had had more time to tell us about the numbers of thousands and thousands and thousands of trees that have been planted.
 And it's not only going back to the trees that you helped plant with a team of people that at the beginning you didn't know who they were and at the end of the morning you're fast friends. It's about that developing a friendship and that developing of community that we're all in this together and we're going to help each other out. Because the size of trees that Friends of Trees plants, you could not do it with a single person unless you had some kind of mechanical device. So it's really a wonderful program.
 Also, thanking Pooja Bhatt and my staff, our partners in the Bureau of Development Services, who have been doing their level best to try to figure out in development situations how do we look after the trees. And so we do. We speak for the trees, which everyone, everyone, everyone needs. Aye. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your passion, your enthusiasm, and your leadership on this. I think this was a great presentation, and I want to thank the staff and the community volunteers who came in today. It was very positive. There were a number of things that I heard colleagues during the presentation. First of all, I'm hearing loudly and clearly that we would like to have a work session focused on this, so I will work...
 with staff and work with the council clerk and we'll secure a date that makes sense sometime between now and September and we'll try to find a mutually agreed upon date that allows us to do that. I was concerned about the low income disparity that we're seeing particularly in East Portland and I'd like that to be a part of that conversation as we have it. I feel that we can do better to address it. Somebody made the great
 that we can do more to connect directly with homeowners. And I've got a couple of ideas that I'd also like to perhaps vet at that work session on how we might go about that. I heard loudly and clearly, and it seems there's a consensus here amongst council, to have...
 an inter-bureau task force to work with some of our community partners to figure out how to best address these issues. With the agreement of my colleagues, why don't we wrap that into the conversation that we have as a work session, and maybe people in the community as well as all of us and our staffs could think about how best to orchestrate that for maximum benefit. And last but not least, I am really...
 I want to come back to the data collection and gathering issue that Michael raised during his public testimony. I think that's critical, and we really have an opportunity here to leverage the goodwill and the interest on the part of the community in this effort to help us gather the data that's so hard for us to collect independently of a broad program. So all good ideas that came out of today's session, and I want to thank people for being here. I vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you.
 Please call the next item, Carla. Item 461, declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the North Subtle Road local improvement district. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. We have before us a longstanding issue and a potential solution with this proposal for initiating a local improvement district on North Subtle Road. Thank you.
 The Portland Bureau of Transportation has been in discussion with property owners about a possible local improvement district here since early 2004, over 13 years ago. And let me start off by expressing PBOT staff's appreciation to the cordial and collaborative conversations with property owners over those years. The many years of property owner concerns make it clear that there is unquestionably a need to improve this street.
 and you'll see in Andrew's presentation how dire the situation is out there. Doing nothing and kicking the can down the road is not in the best interests of the property owners and businesses that use Subtle Road, North Subtle Road. I also want to highlight that we recognize the estimated $8.5 million proposed cost of this local improvement district is a big ask. In fact, it's one, if not the most expensive, local improvement districts we've ever considered initiating.
 But the need is great, so here we are. One final item to highlight before I turn it over to Andrew, as the city will be contributing to this local improvement district through some of the newly enacted dollars from the heavy vehicle use tax, as well as from PBOT's system development charge funding. So we are all in this together, so to speak.
 Now I'll turn it over to our LID administrator, Andrew Abbey. Thank you very much, Commissioner Saltzman. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I know we're running over this morning, so I'll try to get through this presentation efficiently. So this is an overview map of North Subtle Road south of North Marine Drive and it's west of North Portland Road.
 industrial area. This is the detail of the western end of the street. Subtle road is the dead end. There are no plans to punch it through and to make it a connecting street. This is the eastern end of the street closer to North Portland Road.
 I wanted to give a chronology of how we got here. So according to our records, the first building went up on Subtle Road in 1952. In 1978, this area was annexed from Multnomah County to the city. The county had much less stringent street improvement and stormwater requirements than the city. So we inherited that problem when we took that area over from Multnomah County.
 There was a jurisdictional transfer of many roads throughout the city and county that was done in 1984. Subtle Road was included in that. It's really a historical artifact that the city is even in the position of having maintenance responsibility for North Subtle Road.
 Where I got involved was in June 2003. That was when I got my first complaint about Subtle Road, just to kind of put this into perspective. That was two years before my oldest child was born, and he is now two-thirds of the way through to getting to college. This has been a really long conversation.
 2004 we had another property owner meeting. Kind of went dark for quite a few years. At the end of 2015 I received a video which I'll show you here momentarily. We had two meetings last year and then we had another meeting earlier this year. We did petition this LID and the main reason we're doing council initiated LID is twofold. One is to get final resolution on whether or not we're going to improve the street and
 But also there's an urgency to using the Fix Our Streets funding, excuse me, the heavy vehicle funding. We made a commitment to the voters that we would deliver on those projects. And so we want to make sure we need to have an up or down decision whether we're going to spend that heavy vehicle funds on this project or a different one so that we can deliver on maintaining our roads around the city. So here's the video that I just wanted to show you.
 I'm now driving down the worst road in Portland. Today is December 30th, it's 9.30 a.m. and I'm on North Subtle Road. North Subtle Road is the home to two leading recycling companies that serve businesses and residential customers in Oregon and around Portland.
 This is probably the worst road in Portland. Recology, Oil Re-Refining Company, Les Schwab, and a number of other businesses are represented on this street and have had to contend with terrible road conditions. Today's not bad because the rain has subsided, but on most days the potholes are completely covered and the conditions are horrid.
 So I just want to bring this to your attention. Whoever on Mr. Novick's staff is qualified to respond to this, we'd sure appreciate your attention. Thank you. Andrew, we should probably note that...
 We don't want to encourage people to take videos like this and send them in. And my understanding is the legislature is in the process of increasing the fines for people that use their phone while driving. So probably the law has changed since this was taken, and it's very helpful. But we don't want to encourage people to do that. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Since 2003, Maintenance Operations has gone out here 40 times with work orders in an attempt to fix the road. I really want to emphasize the problems on Subtle Road are not due to a failure of maintenance. They are due to a failure to construct this road properly in the beginning. And I know that the members of the council got an auditor's report recently.
 about the need to keep our roads maintained, and I think it's just important really to draw a distinction between those roads that you can properly maintain and those that you cannot. And this certainly falls into the latter category. So this is what we have to show for the results of 40 maintenance work orders in 13, 14 years.
 So just to give an overview of the project, Commissioner Saltzman mentioned this is a big ask, it's $8.5 million, but I think it's also important to put that into perspective. This is a very long street, it's almost 3,000 centerline feet, so you do get a lot for that money. There's nothing salvageable here, this is a full reconstruct.
 We last had a property owner meeting on February 14th, and in the spirit of compromise with the property owners, what this revolution does is that we would narrow the street from 36 feet to 32 feet to reduce the right-of-way acquisition by 4 feet. We're only proposing a sidewalk on the north side of the street. We're really just trying to keep this project scope to a bare minimum.
 And we also plan a stormwater outfall to the Columbia River and improve transit access to the nearby bus line. The proposed project cost, and this is not a lowball cost estimate, this is a conservative cost estimate,
 It's a little over $3,000 per centerline foot. Approximately 24% of that is contingency. And I really want to emphasize that if council approves this LID and we can continue the collaboration between the city and among the property owners, that increases the odds that we can perhaps not use some or all of that contingency. Andrew, can I ask you a question off this slide? Sure. So the proposed funding is $8.50.
 million LID and then PBOT absorption of overhead and then about $800,000 of other sources of funds. So by my reckoning, that's about a 20% match, roughly a 20% match from other sources, direct or indirect sources. Yes. How does that compare to other LIDs that we've authorized? Yes.
 Well, you know, it doesn't move the needle mathematically to a great degree on this particular LID. I mean, this is still a big ask of the property owners, and there's no sugarcoating that. But just to put that into perspective, the LID that you approved last week in another area of North Portland...
 was $819,000. So the additional funding that we're talking about here, over and above the $1.1 million, the additional $800,000 that we're proposing is almost equal to the entire amount of that residential LID that council approved last week. And that is a big lift that we did in a short amount of time since our February property owner meeting.
 Thank you. And that would be first dollar of funding. So the idea is we will spend that money before we use the property owner's money. And then we did have some discussions about, instead of the square footage methodology, perhaps assessing this LID on a linear footage basis, the property in Orange is owned by the Port of Portland, and I want to mention the Port of Portland is not advocated for this, but if we were to switch to a linear footage, we'd have a real disparity because LIDs
 their effective rate per square foot would drop down to two cents per square foot, so they would get a 99% reduction in their assessment. You look next door at Supreme Pearlite, properties shaded in purple, their assessment would go up to $6.80. So for those reasons, I don't recommend that council change the assessment methodology. I just wanted to put this a little bit in financial perspective. Thank you.
 When we did the Northeast 148th Avenue LID quite a few years ago, we had an estimate of $2,000 a foot. We were able to bring that particular LID in 28% below budget. I'm not going to promise that we're going to do that here, that we won't need our contingency, but that's really the goal here, is to try to bring this project in below budget because we recognize the sacrifice of the property owners. And I also wanted to mention that when we put the Northeast 148th Avenue LID together,
 I remember one of the property owners calling me up and saying that the LID was outrageous, that he was never going to benefit from it. Two years after we completed the LID, I sat in a new building that he had built in the back part of his lot, and he had a ribbon cutting on that building. We had a significant increase in real market value of the properties participating in the LID. I am not going to promise that here, but I think it is fair to say that there's –
 The intensity of development is relatively low on this street.
 Finally, I kind of wanted to put the time element of the equation into perspective here. So if this council hearing had been back in January 2004, if we had the same scope, we traditionally plan for 5% a year inflation. So instead of $3,200 a foot, we'd be looking at $1,700 a foot. The property owners would have the ability to finance that over 20 years. They'd be on the home stretch of paying off this LIDD.
 If we take another 13 years to discuss this LID and we kick the can down the road, we could very easily be back here in 2030, and instead of $3,200 a foot, we're talking over $6,000 per foot. So as we think about the scope options and the cost options, I'm really here to just emphasize that time is not on our side in terms of delaying the decision.
 And then lastly, one of the things that we typically do on LIDs, we look at the proposed amount of the LID relative to the burden of the properties, to the value of the properties, rather. So this LID amount is 23% of the real market value of the properties on the street. So, again, I'm not promising an increase in property values, but there is the potential for this to increase.
 generate improvements in property values for the property owners. I think more importantly, the lifeblood of industrial land is that you need good access. And as the presentation showed you, we clearly do not have good or safe access here to those properties. So I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Otherwise, we have several property owners here to testify. Thank you.
 All right, public testimony. How many people do we have signed up? We have six people. All right. Again, we'll limit it to two minutes, please. The first three, please, come on up, are Bill Briggs, Susan Barthel, and Corky Collier. Come on up. Thank you. I must be the first one on the list. Very good. Thank you, sir. Good morning. I've enjoyed sitting here and watching all the wonderful things you're going to do. I'm Bill Briggs.
 I'm one of the owners of Oil Re-Refining. We have about seven acres there. Most of it is wetlands. About half of it has been dedicated to the wetlands, and it's actually an approved facility for wetland for the DEQ. We did quite a little improvement on it. First of all, that kind of expenditure for a street for 11 owners to put on means that we have about an $800,000 mortgage added to our property.
 So in essence, one day your property is paid for, the next day you have an $800,000 mortgage, payable at like $4,500 a month for the 20 years. That's an extreme measure to do. In fact, in my case, it takes my retirement away from me because I don't have an extra $46,000 a month to be paying for that. I think you'll find that's the common problem on the street.
 I don't want to challenge the presentation you had, but there's a lot of facts and it should be looked at and I'd be happy to supply you with that. The 40 times they've been on that street, they may have passed one or two potholes. I'd like to know what the dollar value was. They've almost completely ignored the street.
 We do not have a stormwater system on it. We never have, and yet we're paying $130,000 a year for stormwater fees on the street, and we've never had anything. It's been there 120 years. It's survived with the stormwater system that it has and had it been taken care of a little bit more the last five or six years, we probably wouldn't be here. We would hope that as property owners, I'm only speaking for myself because there's plenty of others here,
 We would hope that you'd sign somebody in the city to look at it to see if you couldn't find a million five improvement on that street rather than spend 9.5 million on it. We think it will handle that. There's about 750 vehicles a day on there. There's about 500 employees on that street.
 And in my judgment, about seven of them may not survive that kind of concern. In my case, I have to increase my sales a million dollars a year in order to be able to pay that $4,500 or $4,600 a month. And that's 20% of my sales. It's pretty difficult to do. This subtle road, as you may know, is an odd road. It's been there so long that it used to carry all kinds of traffic...
 because there were 32,000 rail cars down the rail there for the meatpacking industry and the wooden box plant over there. So it's had a lot more traffic. It really doesn't give us much trouble. If you look at my pictures that I sent all of you, some e-mails and some letters, you'll find that the potholes and all that he's showing you is in a 500-foot street place, and it's the low spot, and it needs to be improved, no question about it.
 the rest of the street probably would handle it for another 100 years but it does need maintenance and the city has lacked that many thank you sir and anything i can answer i'd be happy to do that thank you sir we appreciate your testimony two minutes please thank you um good morning mayor and council members i'm susan barthel and i'm not a landowner but i'm somebody who knows a great deal about this area having worked out in the area for about 23 years
 there's no doubt about it, the road is a mess and the base of it is a mess. So I disagree with Bill, who happens to be a friend and acquaintance. I think because it scares people and damages cars and trucks, it deserves some attention. There's also no drainage and nothing that treats stormwater.
 It's surrounded by industrial businesses. You know that. We know that it's sandwiched between the railroad that borders Smith and Bybee Wetlands, called Smith and Bybee Lakes originally, and that area is designated a significant bird area, so I'm not excited about runoff going to that area. Therefore, advocating for...
 treated stormwater to go to the Columbia River. Even though we do have significant fish there, in some ways having a much bigger water body that's less sensitive would be a good place to put treated stormwater. So I'm going to simply ask you to do this. Take some action to make sure the road is sound and serviceable for the businesses and make sure the runoff is treated.
 and preferably that it goes to the Columbia River. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Hi, my name is Corky Collier. I'm Executive Director of the Columbia Corridor Association. The landowners who will be paying the lion's share of this LID if you approve it are obviously frustrated that the city has not reconstructed the road in the past, and they're scared of the cost of this LID. But at least some agree that it's the necessary step to take.
 Working with Mr. Abbey, we've managed to come up with some additional funds. We've managed to keep costs constrained. We'll continue to do that. My ask of you is to help find additional funds on top of what we've already done. This is a very, very expensive LID, and the cost is falling on only 20 property owners. I know of one property owner whose child is close to going to college, and the cost of this LID is going to affect the financing of that kid's college education.
 I think this is a necessary project, and it's being managed very well by Mr. Abbey, and I suggest that you approve it. But let's not forget about this after lunch. Help these property owners repair our infrastructure. They're going above and beyond to put their cash into a city asset. It's the courteous and financial thing to do for you to go above and beyond to help them. Thanks. Corky, can I ask one question? Yes, sir. And thank you for being here and for always being a positive.
 a positive voice, a voice of reason on these issues. Mr. Abbey, in one of his slides, documented the benefit to property owners if these things are done well over time in terms of increased property values. And I understand you've made an eloquent plea that we add some additional resources to this. But if this is done right, is it fair to say over time that it will have the effect of increasing the value of some of the property out there?
 I think it's fair to say that the property values probably will increase. However, that increase will never cover the cost of this LID. It will never balance out.
 They're building new stormwater systems. They're reconstructing the street, all things the city normally does on its own. And, you know, that's just too big of a bill. It's not going to – the increase in property values is no way going to make up for it. And one of the reasons it's very difficult to do that in an industrial area is because, as you're probably aware, industrial land costs have to remain low. What industrial –
 just the economics of industrial business doesn't allow for very high-cost land. It's kind of strange. I don't completely understand it either because industrial jobs pay higher than average wages, but they require lower than average land costs. You know, that's just the way it is. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I appreciate it. It's in a floodplain that's unprotected, so it's not a piece of industrial land that you can just decide to build everything on. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next three, please.
 Next three are Larry, excuse me, Larry Kahn, Jim Brown, and Alan, I believe the last name is Kirby or Kirby. Good morning. Morning. My name's Larry Kahn. I manage property for PMP Properties that sits on the intersection of North Subtle Road and North Portland Road.
 I've been working this area since 1978 from a brokerage perspective. Been involved with and seen a lot of the various acquisitions that have taken place since that time. And I can tell you I don't think that there will be any increase in value for these properties due to the improvement of Subtle Road.
 We're trying to keep values as high as we can get them all the time. And what Subtle Road needs is, in my opinion, some maintenance. The city has said that they are no longer going to provide maintenance for this road, that they never accepted the condition of the road when they annexed the property, which was a surprise to me. And...
 It's always been a road in a similar condition to what it is now. Maybe a little worse, but certainly not significantly worse. It has always been an area that was considered a diamond in the rough in a lot of ways. I represent a lady who's 80 years old and...
 To add, at one time, the estimate was $1.3 to $1.5 million lien to her property would absolutely devastate her.
 One thing that no one seems to mention, but when people discuss the fact that these liens will be, when they're paid off, will be a boon to the area, I don't think they're taking into consideration that if you have a mortgage on a property, those mortgages are generally 10-year terms.
 And so that when those mortgages terminate or mature, if there is a lien on a property, it slides to the first position. And you're not going to be able to get a loan for that increased value. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Good morning.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the council, thank you. My name is Jim Brown. I'm an attorney who's been asked to represent several of the property owners at this meeting. We appreciate the efforts of Mr. Abbey and city staff in studying North Subtle Road and making recommendations to the council. North Subtle Road has been there for over a century. I've driven up and down it for over 30 years now in involvement with clients. There's no doubt that they're
 is need for repair on North Subtle Road. The real question in forming an LID is to what degree of repair is needed. The east end of the road is in much worse shape than the west end. The west end is very serviceable at this point in time. I think primarily it's due to the ability to manage stormwater drainage on the east end that tends to pond water
 Whereas in the west end, the drainage ditch on both the north and south side of the roads are allowing that stormwater to infiltrate, and that doesn't happen on the east end. I think a lot of the problems could be resolved if we were able to manage that stormwater better on the east end and dissipate the stormwater throughout the length of the ditch. The other question is, you know, what degree of road is needed? The standard that the city has used is...
 Marine Drive, which is basically constructed to the standard of an interstate. It has orders of magnitude more traffic per day than North Sutter Road. You've got numerous traffic signals on Marine Drive to manage the traffic that's there, whereas on North Sutter Road we have a stop sign because the amount of traffic is so much less. The property owners received a bid in September to reconstruct
 about 800 feet of North Subtle Road, which included a six-inch crushed rock base and a six-inch asphalt cover. And the cost to do that was $112,000. If you extrapolate that to the entire length of North Subtle Road, that would have been approximately $400,000.
 And we believe that that road probably would adequately service the traffic usage on North Sutter Road. And there's a big difference between $8.5 million and $400,000. So we respectfully request that if you decide to form the LID, that the city instructs staff to work with the property owners to arrive at a road that meets the needs of the neighborhood but doesn't put them out of business,
 Thank you. You've got about 400 jobs in that street, and maybe over half of them would be lost simply because they can't afford this road. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Thanks for being here. Is there anybody else signed up for public testimony? That's all who signed up. Very good. Andrew, do you want to come back up and perhaps reflect on some of the issues that have been raised? No, Andrew, we would...
 I was a little confused. Somebody said we would not maintain the road if we did the improvements? I'm sorry, Commissioner? There was testimony that the city would not maintain the road once it was improved. Is that correct? Well, it's not an issue of the city not being able to maintain the road. It's just the level of maintenance that the city can provide is extremely limited.
 So you're talking about that's for the current road without the improvements? Yes. But if we did the LID, then obviously the city would take care of it thereafter? Yeah, and I think what we're really aiming for here is that we want to build a road that doesn't require a lot of maintenance by anybody, whether it's the private property owners or by the city. We want to build a structural section that works. I mean, a truck, a less Schwab tire truck that comes down Marine Drive
 is no lighter when it's on Subtle Road than it is on Marine Drive. So while the traffic volumes are obviously much lower on Subtle Road, we still have to build a road section with a certain amount of structural integrity for the vehicles that are operating on the street. And until we address the stormwater issue, when you have pavement sitting in water, that pavement is not going to hold up well over time. So we know it's a big ask, but...
 If council approves this LID, staff are fully committed to minimizing the expense of this LID. If you approve this LID, there would be no expense out of prop pocket until 2020, and the city would offer financing until 2040. So I think it's important to note we're not asking anybody to write a check in one year to pay for this road. This is a long-term investment with long-term financing.
 Thank you. Andrew, could you remind us again just procedurally what our role is today? So you've come forward. We have a –
 We have a resolution. You've presented a case, and you're asking us to authorize the formation of a district, which would be subject to a subsequent hearing. We've heard testimony from people that object to the LID. So what is our role and what is the standard we should apply? Could you remind me?
 Well, what you have before you is a council-initiated LID. So my role under city code is to make a recommendation to council, and my recommendation to council is that he approve this resolution. Then what would happen is we would formally notify all the property owners, and then we would receive any remonstrances that property owners may choose to submit, and then council would make a final decision in July.
 I do think that there would be significant benefit to at least calling the question formally. I think there would be significant benefit to making an up or down decision in July. So if you approve this resolution today, it does not bind the council to approve the formation of the LID in July. But for sake of argument, we're not going to move forward with this LID. I think it's very important that it be on the council record of what the proposed scope is, what the cost is,
 and who objected, so that if we are back here in 2030 and the costs have gone up significantly, that at least...
 We know that we've had the opportunity to solve the problem today. And so just I'll put it in just very simple language. If we approve this resolution today, property owners that object to this LID or object to the formula or have other concerns still have their full rights to bring their remonstrances forward, and then we would have a future hearing to decide those issues.
 Yes, and I would particularly encourage those property owners to contact me directly so that I can bring any proposed amendment to the LID back to Council in July. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. So I have a question for Commissioner Saltzman. I was surprised to hear that the Department of Transportation has in the past maintained this road, because certainly in Southwest, which is where I live, and I was interested in the worst road in Portland, it's certainly the longest of the bad roads in Portland, but there's others that I think would divide for that category. So why was PBOT...
 maintaining a street that wasn't up to standard. I thought the rule was that they had to be before the city would take over the maintenance. Commissioner, it really is just a historical artifact. There were a lot of road transfers from Multnomah County to the city. Ultimately, the maintenance started with Multnomah County. I think that would be a question for them.
 why they took on that road, but we inherited the road from Multnomah County. So I don't have a good answer for you. I'm frankly very puzzled that either the county or the city ever got stuck with maintaining this road. Yes, so I think that's also something to discuss with the property owners and the residents, that that is the citywide policy, that we don't maintain streets that are not up to city standards. So that is part of their choice. Yes.
 I think what it really boils down to, Commissioner, is as the council well knows, you have a limited amount of resources. We have $11.8 million in one year to maintain, you know, take care of the landslides, pavement maintenance, et cetera. This LID is 72% of our annual maintenance budget citywide to deal with roads all over the city. So at some point...
 Whether it's maintenance operations or council, we have to exercise some reasonable discretion on how we spend those funds. Exactly. And I would submit that they're better spent on much lower cost preventive maintenance options on streets than putting it all into one project. And you said it's a council-initiated local improvement district. Are there any supportive property owners?
 You know, I'm hesitant to characterize positions of property owners. I will tell you that several property owners have told me that they really – I mean, nobody's enthusiastic or excited about this proposal. It's a heavy ask. But I've had several property owners tell me that they acknowledge that the time has come
 to get this road reconstructed, I think there's a little bit of reticence to sort of put themselves out front and advocate for it because property owners are sensitive to the overall ask of being made of everybody. And it will be easier for some and harder for others. And I certainly recognize that. We do have some letters here that were just handed to us in support of this by Les Schwab and –
 I think the Subtle Road Committee. Thank you. So, again, to refer back to Commissioner Fish's point, if we say yes at this point, you then do some more scoping and come back to council for a formal approval of the project. Is that correct? Yes.
 Yes, but to be candid with you, Commissioner, I don't expect to see big scope changes or amendments. We've been having this discussion for 13 years. At some point I have to listen to what the engineers are telling me. When they say we need a nine-on-eight road section, I don't want to cut corners that offer up a six-on-six and we spend 85 percent of the money and then five years the road falls apart. Right.
 Because we save $400,000 out of an $8.5 million LID to take three inches of asphalt and two inches of rock out of the base. That's not wise engineering. Right. And that's part of the decision, too. So if the choices were not going to go forward with that, I think we do need to be clear we're not going to maintain it at all. Right. Yeah.
 And then could you just repeat about the financing? There was the concern about having to start paying $4,500 a month. Yeah, it's going to be at least three years before anybody pays anything, and then they'll have 20 years to finance. And we will look very carefully at possible additional funding sources. I mean, people should budget for what's been proposed, but we will continue to look for additional funding. And is there any way that they don't have to – excuse me.
 They don't have to pay and just leave it until the property is sold and then it would be- We do not have an option for a deferral, but again, I would just encourage property owners to come to me. You know, we will try to be as creative as we can be. And I guess on a final note, I just want to say these have been very difficult conversations over the past 13 years, and I really want to commend all of the property owners. They have been extraordinarily gracious and cordial amidst these difficult conversations, and I really appreciate that.
 Thank you. Any further comments or questions before we call the roll? Commissioner Udaly? I need a couple things clarified.
 Did you say there's about 20 affected property owners? Yeah, there's some property owners on multiple properties, but if you look at unique property owners, there's about 20. And so with a square foot assessment, how is the cost divided between those property owners? Is it based on their frontage or is it divided equally? Neither of those two is based on the area of land.
 That they own? Yes. Okay. So they might not have much frontage, but they could have? Yes. Okay. I got it. And I mean, I guess I'm a little uncomfortable taking a step that would obligate property owners with very little buy-in and without knowing how much money we're going to or funding we're going to find. So I just want to...
 Make sure I understand if we approve this today, there's still another part of the process to go through? So the ordinance that would come back to you in July would have $300,000 of heavy vehicle funding. That's already been set aside. What I can't do is obligate the PBOT-STC funding because this straight needs to be added to the new STC project list. But there would be a directive in the formation ordinance that would direct staff to include in the PBOT-STC project update funding.
 PBOT-FTC funding for North Subtle Road. Can I, would my colleague defer for a second? Sure. So one of the benefits of this hearing is we now have a record from property owners raising a series of concerns, including opposition to the plan, questions about financing, questions about the mix of funding. We now have a record. That record is now available to LID administrator and the commissioner in charge.
 And as a council, we can ask when this comes back what further conversations have they had with the community? Has there been a change in any of the support?
 The reason I'm going to support this is that we're launching a process. We're not deciding the question. And in my experience, with all the caveats that Andrew Abbey has given, if there is an LID to be formed and a deal to be reached, Andrew will go the extra mile to try to bring that to fruition. It may not be satisfactory to each commissioner when it comes back for a vote, but I have great confidence that he'll go the extra mile. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Thank you. Very good. Can I just have one more question? It's been 13 years or more. Why did you bring this forward now? Well, as I mentioned in my presentation, this went dark for several years, and it kind of came...
 back to ahead at the end of 2015. You know, when I saw that video, when it landed in my email box, you know, my first sense of the public servant was, well, I need to do something about this. And so that's kind of when we ramped up the outreach.
 When I first started looking at this project, BES wasn't even sure that they had a way to deal with stormwater. We have some very talented staff in BES that came up with the stormwater solution. We had the heavy vehicle tax that came in. And then last but not least, there were some discussions of forming a homeowners association.
 and I just felt that it was important to call the question because if maintenance operations with their fleet of vehicles and talented staff can't keep this road maintained, I think it's really setting people up for failure to think that a group of folks can get together on their own for $100,000 and do a better job than maintenance operations. There's no physical solution other than reconstructing the road. Very good. Carla, please call the roll.
 Fish? Dan, thank you for bringing this forward. Andrew, I love what you just said about how you responded to evidence of a problem, and as a public servant you felt like you were compelled to try to come up with a solution. It is conceivable, based on what we've heard today, that we won't get to that solution. But you've asked us to launch a process which gives us a fair chance of reaching a resolution.
 And after all, what we're talking about here is substandard streets, which means they're unsafe for people who use the streets, and long-term infrastructure needs. And you're also responding to complaints that you've received from people in that neighborhood. So we are launching a process today to give you the opportunity to see if you can bring this to fruition. And I appreciate the folks who took time out today to testify because your concerns are now part of the record, and the council will be monitoring those issues as we go forward.
 Thank you to everyone who participated. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Andrew. Thank you for everybody who testified today and also who contacted us via e-mail or letters. This is not the final decision. That point is down the road, and that will allow Andrew to further work his magic. Often he works his magic with property owners to bring them along. But in any case, it will be an open, fair, and transparent decision that we make sometime this summer. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Okay.
 Fritz. I share, obviously, that lots of concerns have been raised. And I do remember that Andrew in the past has come back and said, actually, we're not going to do this. So I appreciate your work. Because, as I say, 99% of the time you come back and say, yes, we now understand what the choices are. So it's important for the property owners to know that, in fact, in the rest of the city, the city doesn't maintain streets that are not up to public standards. Wheeler.
 Thank you to everybody who testified today. And, Andrew, thank you for your presentation, and thank you for your directness in answering the questions. I am concerned when people who are potentially on a fixed income, who potentially have low-margin businesses, are being asked to step up in a significant way. So I know you heard the testimony today.
 and that you'll work to find a fair resolution before you bring it back to the city council. So I want to thank you for that and your hard work on this, and I've heard nothing but good about your interactions with the neighborhood.
 Whether they agree or disagree with you, everybody has said to a person that you have been respectful and you've heard them out. And I think that speaks highly to you. And we appreciate you representing the city well in these conversations. And thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for bringing this forward. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next item, and I thank those who have been waiting patiently. We're a bit behind schedule, but these were important conversations to have.
 Item 462, declare support for Paragrine Sports LLC's proposal to expand Providence Park. So this resolution is what I would describe as the first step to implement a major expansion of a city-owned stadium. It will be funded with private dollars. These kinds of projects don't typically happen in the way that's being proposed today, and I'm very pleased that
 with the conversations we've had with Peregrine and with the folks at City Hall. And we're appreciative of their willingness to work with us and be flexible on some of the terms of this conversation.
 I think this is an exciting design, and I think it's a necessary expansion for this facility to make sure that Portland remains Soccer City USA for decades to come.
 Obviously, there will be much more to this conversation in the coming months, and I look forward to seeing people from the community, fans of the Timbers and the Thorns, people from the community who have other ideas about how best to approach this. We look forward to that conversation.
 Finally, I just want to state this. While there is no such thing as a free deal, there are always ancillary costs that will be borne by the city with any expansion. The vast, vast share of this proposal is covered by the private sector itself. In fact, this $50 million investment project,
 is a private investment for the rehabilitation and expansion of this facility. It is a city-owned facility. And I just want to contrast this with some recent deals that have taken place in other cities. In the city of Las Vegas, the taxpayers put in $750 million.
 on a stadium expansion. In Atlanta recently, $280 million for a stadium expansion. So I'm very appreciative that when Peregrine came to us
 At the very beginning, we made it very clear that while we certainly saw some benefits to the community and saw the importance of what they were proposing, we really wanted them to step forward first. And I believe through this proposal, they've shown that commitment to do so. And with that, I'll turn it over to Mr. Reinhart. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. Council members. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 My name is Tom Reinhardt. I'm proud to be your Chief Administrative Officer and Director of the Office of Management and Finance. Susan Hartnett, my colleague, and I are going to do a short presentation on this resolution, then you'll hear from Peregrine. As you know, informal discussions about a possible expansion of the city-owned stadium currently called Providence Park have been quietly happening for a year, and I know your offices have been briefed about that.
 Today's item is a resolution expressing Council's formal support for Peregrine Sports proposal to expand and direct city bureaus to work with them on that effort, specifically for OMF to negotiate the deal terms and necessary formal agreements. To be clear, the resolution that we're bringing to you today just directs us to do that work and we will be bringing back other actions for you in the coming weeks. The mayor mentioned months. It will actually be the coming weeks and I'll explain that at the end.
 The resolution before you outlines the following. It tells a little bit about the successful story that we all now know, professional soccer here in Portland, that led Peregrine to make this proposal. 13,000 people who are on the waiting list for timber season tickets and the great enthusiasm for our Portland Thorns. It outlines core elements of Peregrine's proposal, 4,000 additional seats for the stadium at an estimated cost of $50 million that will be fully paid by Peregrine, as the Mayor mentioned.
 and they're requested exemption from ticket tax obligation on new seats for a period of 10 years. The resolution also outlines the construction timeline. As we have talked with all of you and your staffs about, Peregrine would like to start this fall and expects the majority of the work to occur between the two MLS seasons.
 To meet this proposed construction schedule, the passage of this resolution today, assuming you pass it, will be followed in quick succession by several other items on your agenda. I want to just give you a preview of those so you know what events will be triggered by your action today, assuming you take it. May 17th, on your regular agenda, an emergency ordinance for an amendment to an existing on-call contract that will allow our spectator program that Susan so ably runs...
 It will enable them to retain needed owner's reps for the design and construction phases of the expansion. On June 7th, a resolution would be on your agenda to approve a non-binding term sheet covering the deal points and an ordinance approving an exemption from the competitive bid requirements. So that's a little bit of a preview of what will happen if you approve the resolution today.
 Unless there are questions for Susan and I, I'm going to invite Mike Golub from Peregrine Sports to come up and talk to you about the resolution. And then you'll all be available for questions? And then we will, of course, yes. Very good. Mike, come on up. If you could just introduce yourself for the record, please. Twice in one week. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and council members. I am Mike Golub. I'm the president of business for the Portland Thorns and the Portland Timbers.
 What I would characterize as an incredibly successful partnership with the city, with all of you, your offices, the bureaus, with Susan and her team. And quite simply, the success we've had on the field and off the field over the last seven years would not be possible without the partnership we have with the city. The Thorns Championship, the Timbers Championship, the All-Star Game, many amazing moments on the field by both clubs.
 and all the things we do off the field, our waiting lists, our sellouts, the work we do in the community, really without the foundational partnership we have with all of you would not be possible. So thank you, first of all. And we believe that the expansion that we're contemplating and that you're considering today and the collaboration on this new project
 chapter in Providence Park, we think is a natural evolution of where this partnership is, where the stadium is, where the industry and the league is going. And as Mayor Wheeler said, we think it's a necessary one to really ensure a successful future for the city, for our fan base, for the stadium, and for our club. So, again, thank you for your collaboration. We appreciate all the time and effort that Tom and his team and all of you and your staff have put into this. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. Mike, thanks for joining us. And –
 Thanks for the excitement you brought to our city with two fantastic soccer teams. Two questions. One is if we authorize this and you grow the stadium to 25,000 seats, does that make us eligible for sporting events that we currently miss out on because of the size of our stadium? Sure.
 We do. As I think we've shared with you, Providence Park currently is in the lower half of capacity in the league, and that's only going to change as more and more new venues come online in our league. And there are some events, concerts,
 other events that really need a larger capacity. We're talking to some promoters now about some big shows that would bypass Portland if they didn't have a larger capacity. Moreover, we're really hopeful to have the men's and women's U.S. national team return to Portland for World Cup qualifiers, friendlies,
 And again, given the growth of the sport in our country, they are needing larger capacity. So the economic impact and the ability to draw events, we think, will be very well served if expansion does proceed. And the second question, Mike, has to do with just quantifying the extent of the waiver of the ticket tax. And let me put it as succinctly as possible.
 I believe that waiving the ticket tax in consideration of the public investment that's being made to expand and enhance a facility owned by the city is in the public interest. We can quantify what that means, assuming you're wildly successful and you fill all the seats.
 The one thing we can't quantify as precisely is the displacement effect that could occur if existing ticket holders in seats that are subject to the tax migrate over to seats that are not subject to the tax. Number one, how do we quantify that? And number two, what assurances can you give us that we are in effect being asked to waive a specific amount of tax revenue? Thank you.
 Sure. A couple questions in there, Commissioner Fish. Let me address them one at a time, please. As it relates to the tax exemption we're seeking, what we're asking for is through our investment, we are positioning the city to derive ticket tax revenue that they would not otherwise derive. We're simply asking for delay in that. So beyond our exemption and going forward through the length of our operating agreement, and then beyond, which is not
 immaterial to the discussion, the city will be deriving material amounts of new ticket tax revenue by virtue of the expansion. And Commissioner Fritz raised the question the other day about the thorns. As it relates to the timbers, we're sold out, as you know, we have a waiting list of 13,000, so all the seats are going to be occupied. So the city will not forego any ticket tax on existing seats because they're going to be filled as they have been for each of our games over the last seven years.
 As it relates to the Thorns, we never contemplated the Thorns when we did our original deal with the city in 2010, 2011. We're unbelievably proud to have launched the Thorns and see it flourish the way it has. As many of you know, it is the most well-attended women's sports team in the world, period. It's pretty darn cool. The business is great.
 The business has grown dramatically. The Thornton's business has grown dramatically every year, and we expect that trajectory to continue. So financially, I think all of us involved will benefit from the Thornton's continuing to grow, and we think the expansion will only be a further catalyst to the Thornton's growth. So I think it's going to be additive to all of us and not dilutive. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. So on that point...
 I recognise this resolution today is just giving the blessing to go forth and negotiate a contract. So I would like to see something in there that does safeguard the ticket taxes that are currently paid on the Thorns seats. I'm not sure exactly how you're going to do this, but to make sure...
 make sure that people are not moving to a seat where you will get the ticket taxes and we won't. Because as we all know, as wildly successful as the Timbers and the Thorns have, it's still an investment of public money that enabled the whole stadium expansion to work.
 So I'd like that to be considered. The other thing that is concerning to me, I believe that the Blazers contract is up in the Rovers Quarter in 2025. I'm looking at Susan Hartnett, yes. So to the extent that currently Blazer ticket taxes are helping to pay the financing for Providence Park, if for some reason the Blazers no longer are at the Motor Centre, then...
 we will have a very challenging situation in which the general fund will be responsible for paying off the Providence Park debt. So I would hope that there would be something in the contract that would speak to a willingness to look at a different scenario, to do something about that to help the city out to minimize the general fund risk as part of the contract negotiations.
 Noted. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Mike, one other question. Your league is expanding, and we're seeing stadiums built all over the country, and some of them are suburban-style stadiums that are not as accessible as ours. And some are bigger. They have more seating, and they're starting from scratch. I asked you this question when you came in to brief me, but I was so proud of your answer, I thought I'd give you a chance to say it publicly. Why do you as an ownership group –
 want to make a big investment in this stadium versus replacing it with a larger stadium in another location.
 you know we realize we have a very unique uh relationship with our fan base many of whom are here today with the community at large with the city and we realize that province park is uniquely situated there's amazing rich history at that location and we want to be there for the long term and this expansion that we're all contemplating um increases our commitment to doing that one of our biggest fears is that
 at the end of our operating agreement, which expires in 2035, if we don't do this, that Providence Park isn't viable, and we'd be forced to look elsewhere. We don't want to do that. We are committed to being where we are, and we think this expansion will help us do that.
 Thank you. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you. Well, in the last couple months, I have learned more than I ever knew there was to know about our spectator venues, and I still have a long ways to go. I'm generally supportive of the expansion. I think it's a beautiful design. I share some of Commissioner Fritz's concerns. I realize that
 the $50 million is coming from your end, but I want to make sure that I understand the impact on our spectator venue maintenance fund and the impact on our obligation to maintain this increased size, the potential of diluting tickets on the side where we are taking a commission. And I guess I'm curious...
 Do you have a timeline for how long you think it would take Peregrine to recoup the $50 million through increased ticket sales? On the latter question, Commissioner Udali, there's still a lot of moving parts. The design is still not in final form. The costs are...
 possibly going up. We haven't set ticket prices. So there's a lot of moving parts yet. So for us to definitively state what sort of our economics are is challenging. It's many years. We know that. As it relates to the first part of your question or comments, we believe if you look at this deal on its own merits, which I think is what you're doing today, we're
 It's really hard to argue that there's a material return on investment. There's some additional costs that City may face, as you pointed out, but there's no upfront investment, and there's long-term material upside for the City predicated on our private investment. And we want this. We want this to be a win for the City, and we want this to be a win for the fan base, and obviously we wouldn't be doing it if we didn't feel it was a good thing for the club, and we're hopefully crafting a deal that reflects that.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fish, did you have a question? No, I'm fine. Very good. If you could just hang out, we'll take some public testimony. Is there public testimony on this item? Yes, we have three people signed up. Robert West, Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson, and Scott Swearingen. Just sit down over there. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. And as the mayor already noted, this is kind of a...
 unique. We're doing professional sports venues much different than Mr. Adelson in Las Vegas. And I thank Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Fritz for their concern that even on the generally positive financial picture, we still have the question of, we've got a bunch of sold out seats that we have, ticket revenue tax that we're collecting. The new seats will people switch, but as Peregrine has pointed out, it's still a little unclear what's
 what type of seating they're going to construct, how many nosebleed seats, how many premium seats. I think that one thing that is missing, and perhaps if Perrigan comes back up, we'll hear how well Portland is doing as a professional sports venue with equity. What is the scoping of the ticket prices? Is there...
 any pressure to have them look at the feasibility of seats that aren't nosebleed but are still affordable so that the whole of the Portland community can enjoy the thorns and the timbers. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Scott Swearingen. It's good to be back in front of several of you and some of you for the first time. I am representing the 107 Independent Supporters Trust, which is the engine behind the Timbers Army as well as the Rose City Riveters. We were – I went through this process in 2010, 2011, and I'm glad to be back here with this deal in particular, especially with the private money.
 I'll keep it short, but we are in support of this resolution and this expansion. The main thing that we are challenged with as an organization, especially on the Timbers side, is that we are constrained within our north end sections. We represent over 5,000 paying members this year, and our ability to get any of those paying members into the stadium is hamstrung by the overall capacity.
 As a population within the stadium, we're aging out because there's no ability to get fresh faces in. As part of the stadium expansion, it will open up the ability for people to move within the stadium who already have tickets and get some of those new faces in and into the Timbers Army sections, into the Rose City Riveter sections, and allow us to continue to grow and thrive because our goal is to be the greatest supporters ever
 the world's ever seen. We start popping up on a lot of international media as like a great, one of the best places to catch a game in the world. We'd like to continue that and to do that, adding this renovation and this additional capacity will really aid everyone involved in our members especially.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. I think one important thing we've overlooked is that in the age of smartphones, we might have a way that we can impose special surcharges on Sounders fans. Of course, we don't want to war back and forth when we're there, but I think that's very important to research. Thank you. Thank you. Was there any more public testimony? That's all who signed up. Mike, could you come back up? Because there were a couple of interesting points that have been raised. And the first is,
 around, you know, it's my understanding, and I don't want to put words in your mouth, but in the conversations that we have had and that staff has had staff to staff, it is obvious that your intention is not to play a shell game with regard to the spectator funds on the thorns. It's my understanding that we could reach an agreement whereby those funds would be stabilized.
 Absolutely. We are coming at this truly with a win-win proposition in mind. We also realize that a healthy spectator fund is good for us. And so we want to do the right thing. And so as we...
 resolution passes today and we continue negotiations, we will work hard at achieving that right balance that you alluded to. Thank you. And I don't necessarily want to put you on the spot, but I thought it was a really interesting comment, the question about is there an opportunity –
 as we go forward to talk about some lower income opportunities for people to be able to participate in what's obviously a phenomenal sporting opportunity. Well, I appreciate Mr. Johnson's comments and questions. And one of the things we're so proud of with the Timbers and Thorns is that we're very affordable and very accessible. You can come to a Thorns game for $10.
 You can have a season ticket in the Timbers Army and if you're willing to sleep out overnight, sit in the front row for $24. So soccer, relative to the other major sports in our country, is highly affordable. It's one of the engines behind our success. And what expansion will allow us to do is to keep those prices at an affordable level. As we've talked about, we've been sold out, we have a waiting list, yet we haven't...
 Simple economics would say you have all this demand, you could raise prices. Aggressively, we haven't. And so the affordability and accessibility that's at the heart of soccer is critical to us as well. I appreciate that. Thank you for your answers. Any further questions or comments? Carla, please call the roll. Mike, you're welcome to take a seat. Thank you. Fish?
 Well, first I just have to declare a conflict of interest. My son and my daughter are soccer snobs, and we go to a lot of Thorns games. And some of the best times in my life is to sit with my kids watching the best women in the world play soccer and to wear Kendall Johnson's jersey to root on for a local star.
 This is not a hearing to address the design, and that is subject to other legal process, so it would be inappropriate to comment on the design. But I will comment that I think it was inspired to ask architect Brad Klofel to work with your team for two reasons. One is he's one of the most famous architects in the world, and most of his work is done outside of Oregon. So the fact that he would have an opportunity to design something iconic here –
 not editorial comment, something here, is important. And the second thing is during Design Week he was featured at an event, and not a lot of people know this, but in the most important competition currently in the world for a memorial, he's been chosen as a finalist to design the Holocaust Memorial in the city of London, England. And that honor of being a finalist has gone to a number of the most prominent architects in the world. So it's kind of neat that someone of that caliber –
 is on your team. I've been on the council from the very beginning of this process, and back in 2010, 2011, we had a very spirited discussion about the level of public investment in a vision that Mr. Polson had, and as you know, Mike, at the time, I could not get my arms around the city putting substantial resources into both a soccer stadium and a baseball venue. Okay.
 And my ultimate decision was reached on the basis of conversations I had with our financial team, including our chief financial officer. I was very proud subsequently to vote on an ordinance which went with a soccer stadium only option, which was based on a new set of financing, which I thought was more in the public interest. Today...
 Who could have forecast that we'd be here talking about a franchise that has already won a national championship or two national championships in both teams and that is bringing the best of professional soccer to our community? Thank you.
 The mayor, I think, is correct to look at the experience of other cities around the country because cities that have invested hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayer money in these bigger and bigger stadiums have often found it is not a good deal for the taxpayer. It is a good deal for the owners but not for the taxpayer. So when I heard that you and the ownership group was coming forward and saying, we're ready to make a $50 million investment in the city's stadium,
 I was very pleasantly surprised, and I think it's enormously generous. What you have asked as part of this deal is that we waive a tax on tickets that would not exist but for your $50 million investment. Let's be clear. If the city doesn't want the expansion, then they won't have the tickets. We won't be generating the taxes anyway, so thank you.
 We're either going to give green light to this opportunity. And since you haven't asked for any direct public subsidies, it seems to me it is reasonable to ask that our modest contribution be the taxes generated on seats that would not otherwise be generated unless you invested $50 million. I wish more people came forward to the city with deals like that.
 And we're not here, in my view, to debate every aspect of the Visitors Development Fund and every bucket and the holistic system. We're looking here at one stadium and one deal. And I have concluded this is in the public interest to proceed on these terms. And I thank you and Merritt Paulson for really the spectacular benefit you've brought to our community with two successful soccer clubs. Hi. Saltzman.
 Well, I think this is a wise investment. As our decision back in 2010-2011, it was a wise decision to partner with Peregrine Sports to produce the tremendous success the city has experienced under having the Portland Timbers and the Portland Thorns. You have lived up to everything that was committed to and then some, which includes revenues to the city.
 So this additional investment of private dollars for a modest forgiveness of ticket tax for a period of 10 years, I believe, I think is a wise leverage of city resources to produce a $50 million investment and to better serve our residents and their enjoyment of all the excitement and magic that is the Timbers and the Thorns. So I'm very pleased to support this. Hi. Udailey? Thank you.
 Well, Commissioner Fish, I certainly wasn't wanting to look a gift horse in the mouth. I just feel that it is my responsibility to understand what kind of liability that we're agreeing to, even though we're not outlaying cash up front. And I will continue to explore that. Fritz.
 I've got my Rosie of the Rivers scarf here. And, you know, Scott Swearingen did say that we aim to be the greatest supporters in the world. I think we're there. I don't know of any other supporters club that is so public-spirited. And Mr. Johnson raised the issue of ticket costs. You can get two free Thorns tickets with a fill-up of gas in some places. And there's always people who are donating tickets that you can pick up at the Van Leiden if you get there early enough.
 So it's a very mixed group, especially for the Thorns game. It's all different ages, all different kinds of folks who are just enjoying a relatively inexpensive family day out and I very much appreciate that aspect of it. And this resolution,
 refers to the 10-year tax diversion. Because the peregrine will be keeping the tax, it's not like the tax won't be there. The seat prices will remain the same after the 10 years. It says that in the whereas clauses. It doesn't yet say it's in the resolved clauses.
 So I'm hoping that I know that our team from the Office of Management and Finance will be negotiating a good deal for everybody, to be really clear. I also want to particularly thank Mike Golub, who, as Commissioner Fish referred to, is not only on the chair of the board of the Regional Arts and Culture Council,
 He and I have been having discussions over many years now about paid internships for the Thorns players. It's one of the big areas of our community in Oregon where the gender difference in pay is stark and disgraceful. And that's because of the way that the National Soccer Federation, or whatever they call it, sounds like the Empire Strikes Back,
 that they set the rules, but the national team players for the Thorns get paid a decent wage and the other local heroes, as Commissioner Fish mentioned, Kendall Johnson and others, they don't. So what Mr. Golub and I are going to be doing over the next few weeks, and hopefully we'll have something to prepare for the next...
 council vote is a formal internship program reaching out to the Thorns and the Timbers sponsors to introduce the wonderful young players who come to Portland to be part of the greatest team in the world and maybe hopefully will stay in our city. We were very happy to host one of the Thorns as an intern in Portland Parks and Recreation this past year and as a
 pilot project and with the success of that, I'm sure we can build on it. So thank you for your partnership in that. It really is about the whole game. It's not just a game. It's about the whole experience for players and families. And I appreciate what our city has done. Hi. Wheeler. I first of all just want to say I believe the Timbers and the Thorns are amongst the best sporting franchises anywhere in the world.
 And as a dad, this has been a really positive and personal thing for me. I personally have always been involved in sports that are lousy spectator sports. And so it's been hard to inspire my young daughter to be interested in something like triathlon.
 When you watch it on channel 387 or whatever channel it is, it's like watching paint dry. And then there was the day I took her to the Thorns. And she had never expressed any interest in sports at all.
 until we got to the Thorns game. And all of a sudden, when she saw all these women on the field, she was suddenly riveted. And she asked if we could move down closer, and we went down closer. She was leaning into the game the whole time. And she asked me afterwards if she could get a jersey.
 And so we went up and she got a jersey. And I'm very happy to say she wears that jersey all the time, maybe more than she should, but she wears it all the time. So that's the personal story. But now I have to take you back to the beginning. I was also at the hearings that were held by the city council when Merritt Paulson was here and Mike and others were talking about their original vision.
 And while I supported the Timbers and I supported their efforts to expand the stadium, I opposed
 the financing mechanism that was being proposed at the time, which was the use of tax increment financing. And the reason I opposed it was because it was taking not only resources away from other valuable county programs, and I was, of course, sitting at that table, not this table, but I also opposed it because it meant the public was taking the risk. And if this vision
 that these individuals didn't actually pan out, the reality is we would still need to expend tax increment financing to pay off the bonds that would have been issued for the expansion of the stadium. And so when I was first approached by Merritt Paulson and Mike about an expansion, I'll be honest with you. I started to get sweaty palms. Yes.
 And I was very pleased over the course of several conversations that now that they are an established franchise and their proof of concept has been proven beyond any doubt, and now that they can actually look back on their most optimistic business plans, their pro formas, and be able to state with a straight face that they exceeded even their most optimistic scenarios of how this –
 experiment would turn out in Portland with a major stadium expansion and the creation of a new franchise system. This deal, to me, is as good a deal as any public jurisdiction anywhere in the United States has ever been able to put together with a private sector sports team. And it is as a result of their preparation and their leadership in bringing players
 a really incredible opportunity to the City of Portland. And what we're doing here by passing this resolution is both acknowledging the value of that effort that took place here and recognizing that there is still a tremendous amount of upside potential, not just for the Timbers and the Thorns and Peregrine, but for the community at large. So I'm very supportive of this effort. I will tell the Chief Operating Officer that
 Sorry, the Chief Administrative Officer. You also heard, Mr. Reinhart, that there are some other issues that the Council would still like to have conversations about, and I know you and Mike and others will take those conversations seriously going forward. But this is the necessary first step. I thank my colleagues for listening to my long-winded presentation.
 I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Mayor, can we take a two-minute break and then do a time check? Let's do a two-minute break and think on this during your two minutes. My preference would be that we continue until one of people are able to continue to one. We'll see how far we get through the agenda, and then we'll talk about it at one. Does that work? All right. We're adjourned for two minutes. We're in recess. I could use that two minutes myself. That's right. I'm sure you've got a phone. Yes.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Carla, could you read the next two items? We're only taking a vote on one. But if you could read them together and then I'll turn it over to Commissioner Saltzman. 467, revised city code language regarding council subpoena powers. And 468, authorized city attorney to exercise city authority to subpoena books, documents, and other records to determine scope of private for hire legislation to protect
 the public health, safety, and welfare within the incorporated boundaries of the city of Portland. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. What we have before us is a change to an ordinance, which is an emergency, and also then a resolution to issue a subpoena for documents from Uber. And I'll sort of paint the roadmap, and then I'll turn it over to the attorneys to fill in the details. This March, the New York Times published an investigation report
 of Uber's use of Grayball, a sophisticated software tool used to evade government officials and their attempts to enforce consumer and safety protections. As part of its investigation, the New York Times cited the experience of Portland regulators who, when Uber illegally entered the Portland market in December of 2014, tried to book Uber rides but found those rides being canceled. At the time...
 Portland officials suspected that there was an effort on Uber's part to avoid regulators, but it was not until the New York Times investigation that we understood how sophisticated and widespread Uber's evasion truly was. Immediately following the disclosure of the Grayball tool, as outlined in the New York Times article, I directed the Portland Bureau of Transportation to conduct an investigation into the use of Grayball in the city of Portland.
 and to determine if there were any signs that a similar tactic is still used by Uber to avoid regulation. The Portland Bureau of Transportation worked closely with my staff over the 45-day period to conduct an investigative audit to look in-depth at the 2,300 compliance and field audits, commonly known as inspections, conducted by regulatory enforcement specialists. And we also requested ride data provided by the transportation network companies, both Uber and Lyft,
 and posed eight specific information requests that were outlined in a letter addressed to Uber's CEO, Travis Kalanick, sent for myself and Mayor Wheeler on March 15, 2017. I want to take this opportunity to thank the Portland Bureau of Transportation, specifically Leah Treat, Chris Warner, Mark Williams, Dave Benson, our city attorney, Ken McGare, and their staffs for their tireless work during this time,
 and for this effort that went into producing the detailed report. While the Portland Bureau of Transportation report didn't find any indication that Grayball is still used by Uber in the city of Portland, they have recommended some programmatic and code changes that will strengthen our role and efficacy as a regulatory body, and we will be bringing forward some code changes in light of that, what we have learned and what we will learn, we believe, from the subpoena at a later date.
 As part of our investigation, we called on Uber to supply us with the data and other critical information that would help us to fully assess their activities here in Portland and the extent of their attempt to evade our efforts to protect the public. Unfortunately, Uber has not complied with our request, and that is why I feel very strongly that the City Council must use one of the most powerful tools at our disposal, our legislative subpoena power.
 in order to obtain the requested records Uber has yet to provide, namely the Grayball Playbook and its associated software. After we authorize the city attorney to issue the subpoena, it is my hope that I will have the support of council, as I said earlier, to come back in the coming months with a slate of code revisions that will be informed by both what comes of this process and the recommendations I've received from the Private for Hire Advisory Committee and also the Bureau of Transportation.
 I support ride-sharing in Portland and believe that it provides many benefits to our community. We as a council fully support expanding transportation options for Portlanders. However, as a regulatory body charged with ensuring the safety of the public, we must also ensure everyone in the industry is playing by the rules, providing universal service, and acting ethically.
 So I want to thank my colleagues for joining me in signing on to this resolution, we'll consider, for co-sponsoring it. It sends a strong message that we collectively stand firm in our right to subpoena these documents that will inform our legislative and regulatory processes. It is my hope that the City of Portland and Uber can have a mutually beneficial partnership going forward. And in order for that to happen, I believe this is a necessary and right thing to do on behalf of all Portlanders.
 And now I'd like to turn it over to, I think, Ben Walters and Tracy Reeve, who are going to talk about the ordinance and the resolution a little bit more. So I'm your city attorney, Tracy Reeve, and with me is Chief Deputy City Attorney Ben Walters. Ben is going to briefly address the ordinance, which contains some code changes, and then I'll briefly address the legislative subpoena. So, Mayor, Commissioners, I'm Ben Walters with the City Attorney's Office. So the power to...
 conduct investigations... Ben, is that my card? There we go. Sorry. The power to conduct investigations is inherent in the legislative process. This power encompasses inquiries concerning the administration of existing laws as well as proposed or possibly needed legislation.
 The authority vested in the council is both explicit in the charter, various provisions, and inherent in the council's legislative powers. There's existing code language addressing that subpoena authority. I was around the last time the council did this, back when they were asking for records from PGE, and Tracy assisted in that capacity when that happened.
 uh... subpoena was challenged by pdg in multnomah county circuit court
 In looking back upon that experience, we looked at the code and came up with some modifications to avoid some of the complicating issues that were experienced in that last go-around and to provide some clarification in the process going forward so that both the city and any entities that might be the recipient of a subpoena will have a clearer understanding of how to move forward once the subpoena is issued.
 So if there's any questions regarding the code amendments, I'm here and available to answer those questions. I just have one question. Could you clarify any potential risks between our decision to investigate independently, which I strongly support, and the federal criminal investigation just announced? Is there any potential overlap, and are we at any risk of potentially interfering with that process at the federal level?
 So, Mayor, if the response that we receive relies upon Fifth Amendment protections in order to deny the request for production, or at this point all the subpoena is for the production of records, and ordinarily in a corporate setting, and I'm advised of this by lawyers in our office who are more familiar with
 these issues. Corporations, at this point in time, the courts do not recognize that corporations have self-incrimination protection, and so we'd have to undertake an evaluation of that. But we are cooperating with the U.S. Attorney's Office in California, and we would probably confer with them. We don't want to jeopardize any of that process. Very good. Thank you.
 Any further questions? Commissioner Fish? I'm going to support this, and I thank Dan Saltzman for his leadership in bringing this forward. Dan, there were some additional findings in the PBOT report that I wanted just to flag. And when I, back in time, cast a no vote in terms of allowing Uber and Lyft and others to operate in Portland –
 One of the concerns I had was about trust. One of the concerns that another of my colleagues, Commissioner Fritz, had was about consumer protection and adequacy of insurance protections. And in this very thoughtful report that PBOT under Dan's leadership has issued, it appears to me that fully a quarter of the operators' concerns
 who were subject to random checks could not produce a valid insurance certificate. And that is very alarming. And I wonder, Dan or counsel, if you could comment about that and what additional steps we're going to do to ensure that the, what I believe are already inadequate insurance standards are followed. And if someone can't produce a company insurance certificate, then,
 then it raises the question about whether the operator of that vehicle is under the misunderstanding that they can use their personal car insurance rather than commercial insurance, which, again, puts the consumer at undue risk. Could we get a follow-up on that? No. Right up, Mark Williams from the Portland Bureau of Transportation, who is in charge of our regulatory program here. I'm not sure if this is on. Yeah, it's on. Thank you. So Mark Williams, I'm regulatory division manager. So we...
 The insurance during the field audits, the drivers aren't carrying a copy of the TNC insurance, but the TNCs are covered.
 Well, then, according to Figure 1.7 on Page 12 of the report, it says noncompliant, and then underneath says company insurance. So PBOT has determined that these drivers are noncompliant. So in what way are they noncompliant concerning insurance? They're just not carrying a paper copy of the insurance. So it's a problem that we've had with many of the TNC drivers in the past.
 We first required them to carry a digital copy. When we updated the code back in 2016, the requirement was to carry a non-digital copy, so just a paper copy of the insurance. So when they don't have that, we do record them as being noncompliant. So they have the insurance. They may not have the paperwork. They just don't have the paper copy. And they have the insurance because the TNCs have represented –
 by some agreement, agreed to provide umbrella insurance for all the drivers? Correct. So Uber and Lyft provide coverage in all three periods for all the TNC drivers. And the TNC periods, the type of coverage, varies obviously between period one and two and three. But how do we know, sir, that a driver is not submitting a claim to their personal insurance as opposed to the Uber corporate umbrella coverage?
 Well, that is the reason for them being required to carry the paper copy. So that's the point I wanted to get at. Yes. And since we cannot – so this has the effect of not only being a violation of our rules, but it also at least opens the door to people seeking to evade using the corporate umbrella insurance and using their private insurance, which would in turn make it more difficult for you to track accidents and claims. Correct? Well –
 Possibly. So it would be, I would consider an enormous disadvantage to a TNC driver to present their own personal insurance in the event of an accident.
 That insurance is in place mostly to protect the consumer or in the event that the driver is liable for the accident. What we don't want to happen is if a TNC driver hits you in your car, we don't want him to present his or her personal insurance. Eventually what happens is that the insurance companies eventually figure out this was a accident.
 that was caused while they were operating on the platform, and Uber and Lyft's insurance will eventually kick in. But it does delay the process. So rather than a claim being settled in 45 days or less, it could be as far out as six months. So it's really important that if they have an accident, that they present the appropriate insurance so that the claim processors can head down the appropriate route initially. And finally, Mr. Williams, what's the fine for not carrying insurance
 a company insurance certificate? Currently, the fine is $50. If you don't have, that's the first initial offense, and it goes up from there. I believe it goes from $50 to about $150. Do you think that's adequate? We are making recommendations to present to council at a later time to increase that minimum fine from $50 to $250. Thank you. Thank you. Tracy, please. Yeah.
 So I just wanted to address that the legislative subpoena power is not a new – you're not granting a new authority here. This is a long-established authority.
 authority that legislative bodies have has been mentioned and was used previously in the P P G E situation. But as Ben mentioned, what we did not have is a process in place that specifically set forth the rules, if you will, for how that works. And so in order of clarity for everyone, you know,
 We're setting that forth. But the legislative subpoena authority is a long-established authority that you have that is inherent in the nature of a legislative body so that you have the ability to investigate and determine whether legislative changes, new legislation is appropriate. And so the legislative subpoena that you would be authorizing us to issue in the resolution is directed at getting the information from Uber that we haven't previously gotten the
 the Grayball playbook, software, other information about how they've been using this technology because we don't have any facts, and I don't mean to suggest that at this point there are any facts to suggest that this is being used for other purposes than
 but it's certainly depending on the nature of the technology. It is of concern, could it be used for other improper purposes, and is that something that council might want to address, which is why we're more broadly wanting to get the playbook and evaluate how this technology works, what other areas it could be used in, and is specific legislation appropriate that would avoid that occurring. So to inform our legislative and regulatory efforts,
 Exactly. Private for hire transportation. Exactly. Tracy, one other question, because I think there's some confusion in the public. Today...
 We're being asked to authorize the issuance of a legislative subpoena, but we are also going to come back to council in a couple weeks with an ordinance or a resolution to authorize administrative subpoenas so that the Department of Revenue can collect data from companies that are not currently complying with our laws in the sharing economy other than Uber. What's the distinction? Okay.
 Well, an administrative subpoena is an aid of enforcing a legislative scheme that is already in place. So council has a legislative scheme in place for taxing and regulating tax.
 short-term rentals, and that will give us explicit subpoena authority to get the information we need to apply that regulatory code. So it's not looking at what information do we need for you all to be able to make informed legislative judgments. It's directed at allowing the regulators to implement the legislative program that you've already adopted and with any changes that you make to implement that short-term rental regulatory scheme. Okay.
 Thank you all. I don't know if there's any testimony. Is there any public testimony? I believe one person has left. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Very good. Come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, commissioners. So I want to thank Commissioner Fish for going in there with the administrative subpoenas.
 when we talk about fairness we want to make sure that all of the new falsely labeled sharing economy companies can be concerned that the public will know what they're really doing and so i only wish that the administrative subpoena process could have been sped up so that airbnb or similar situated companies would know that we want to really know how involved they are in deceiving people
 about the effect they're having on our housing market, the fact that we live in a city where thousands of people are sleeping outdoors and on the streets. To the specifics of Grayball and Uber, it was interesting to hear that corporate personhood doesn't extend perhaps to the Fifth Amendment. So I appreciate
 your zeal here, which is really where the city needs to put its zeal. Earlier today, on item 455, we heard from an individual, a person who was screwed over by this community to the tune of having to pay a quarter million dollar bond to get out of jail for a situation that, within months, the district attorney said, no case, dismissed. So one of the things that
 a municipal corporation needs to do is be governed by real people who put real people first so that we don't have situations where actual real human beings are abducted by armed thugs out of Starbucks, framed with quarter-million-dollar extortion that then disappears through the legal process when cooler heads realize that a bunch of armed thugs in the police department exaggerated the situation. So please...
 Save your zeal for situations like that. Poor Uber, Airbnb, billionaires hiding down in San Francisco, undermining the quality of life while telling everybody they're running something they falsely label as sharing economy. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. The city of Portland has found no evidence that Uber has used Grayball or any technology to avoid city inspectors.
 Again, I think what the city is doing right now is just a witch hunt. You're positioning yourself based upon the DOJ investigation to negotiate a settlement agreement, them not admitting any guilt. They're not going to supply you any records. It's not going to happen. The program was designed as a safety program, basically to make sure that their drivers aren't harmed. They're going to prove that. And again, you're just positioning yourself...
 in a way to try to get money from them. And as you know, Uber's getting ready to do an IPO, whether it's in the next year or so. This is going to affect their value on that. I hope Travis Kalanick will come back and sue the city, maybe for $1 billion, just to let you know. You don't have anything here. It's a witch hunt. You're going after Travis Kalanick. And you know what's interesting here is that you allowed Uber to come in and Lyft...
 into this city and create an app in their platform that has decimated the local cab companies that have been here for years. And now you're surprised that Uber is creating software that you're claiming is monitoring you at the same time and your regulators? Well, again, don't be surprised at the end of this. You'll find out that everything they're doing is legal, everything it's doing will proceed forward,
 And again, he'll get the highest value for his IPO when he rolls out Uber. And again, he can thank you for that. He can thank you for that. And I noticed on this resolution, all of the commissioners submitted this resolution and pushed it forward. Well, isn't that great to the taxi cab companies in this city that have lost everything? You're hypocritical. You'll get nothing from Uber. And they'll win at the end of the day. Thank you. Thank you.
 That's all who signed up? Sorry? That's all who signed up. Oh, very good. Any further council discussion? Mayor, just since Lightning is someone who testifies a lot and often makes –
 cogent and thoughtful comments. Just want to correct the record on one thing he said. In the investigative report that Commissioner Saltzman brought forward to the council, Uber acknowledged they used the technology to evade and deceive regulators. That's an admission, and that's in a letter from their attorney. So it's not a claim or an unfounded claim. They have acknowledged, but they've also stated that they have discontinued using it. And one of the things we're going to do is verify whether that's accurate. But I want to clarify that. They did acknowledge using the technology.
 So item 468 is a first reading, and so I will... It's an emergency. It's an emergency. 468 is not. Resolution. I'm talking about 468. 468 is a non-emergency first reading. It's a resolution. It's a resolution. So we're going to vote on both. Oh, you're right. I stand corrected. If only I could learn to read. So let's take them in order then. 467, please call the roll. Fish? Fish.
 I am very proud to support this ordinance today, and I want to begin by thanking the Transportation Commissioner for the aggressive way that he has pursued the truth in this case. I reread the report the other night that Dan and his department issued, and I think it's a model of an investigative report, so I compliment the Commissioner, the Director, and the legal team that worked on it.
 I was mildly surprised once the report issued that Uber chose to once again revert to its combative nature rather than to seek a conciliatory attitude. And I was struck when I was contacted by a reporter who asked me to respond to a statement that Uber issued, did not have the courtesy of sharing it with the council, but issued, and it has the following sentence.
 It is unfortunate this investigation and the report have become so politically charged and that Commissioner Fish has used the process to make baseless claims about our conduct in Portland. So first of all, let me say that I consider it an insult to suggest that Commissioner Saltzman at any stage of this proceeding has been politically motivated, and I would challenge Uber to come forward with one shred of evidence to support that claim.
 And to attack the integrity of this body and the commissioner as a way of deflecting attention away from their acknowledged misconduct is the kind of behavior we take for granted in Washington, D.C., but is somewhat new to Portland, Oregon. The second thing I want to say is since the person who issued this statement also chose to make an attack on me personally, Mayor, point of personal privilege. I want to just review what's in the record.
 because we don't want there to be any suggestion that the council is making claims that are not supported by the facts. And these are the claims that have been made at various points in this proceeding. The first is that when Uber entered the marketplace, they operated illegally. We have made that claim, and we believe our law supports that. In fact, the city of Portland brought a lawsuit to compel Uber to cease their illegal operations. Number two, Uber has now acknowledged –
 through an attorney's submission that they used a technology called Grayball to evade and deceive regulators. If the statute of limitations on fraud had not run, I believe we would have a number of legal claims we could bring around that. But they have acknowledged they used a software to identify particular passengers and to bypass them so they could not, those passengers being city regulators, could not enforce the law. That has now been documented.
 It is also a fact that after the city, in a split vote, welcomed Uber into town and set up a regulatory scheme, Uber subsequently went to Salem to seek to preempt the city from having any further role in regulating them as a TNC. And in their effort in Salem and the bill that they sponsored, they also proposed weakening consumer protections, preempting the city from enforcing its code, including protecting consumers,
 and in an interesting piece of what I would call regulatory overkill, seek to have forever the status of the drivers declared as a matter of law independent contractors. Fortunately, that legislation faced significant opposition, and including the city that opposed it, and Commissioner Saltzman testified against it.
 All of the statements I've just made are factually supported claims based on evidence in the record. And so I'm puzzled when Uber, through its paid professionals, makes claims about a politicized process or unfounded claims. I'm not even going to address the conduct that has been alleged outside of Portland around what I think can only be described as a sick corporate culture.
 a corporate culture that has led to Uber as a company bringing in an outside law firm to do a complete review of their compliance with Title VII, a corporate culture that has resulted in bombshell allegations about the treatment of women in the workplace, and, as has been noted in the report issued by PBOT, a corporate culture that has prompted the Department of Justice to begin a criminal inquiry
 and they do not undertake such things lightly. So those are all claims that have been made. They are all factually supported, and I think some offense that the response by this company at the point in which a report was issued is to challenge the integrity of this body. I believe it is time that we authorized the subpoena. I think we have an obligation as a legislative body to follow the evidence wherever it takes us,
 And I, frankly, do not trust this company to make representations to legal counsel. We have a right to see the underlying documents around Grayball, and we have a right to make our own independent inquiry as to whether the company has engaged in illegal conduct. Dan, thank you for your strong leadership on this. This is a vote I am very proud to make. And in conclusion, because I get this sometimes from our critics, I happen to proudly carry the app of a company called Lyft on my phone.
 and it was placed there by someone in my office who said I should have it during inclement weather to have another option. I am not against companies that provide these services. I do have concerns about the documented behavior of one company called Uber. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank my colleagues for what I anticipate will be their support for these two items. This is about getting at the facts and ensuring that our public –
 is being served in a safe and sound manner, and that we, our regulators, have the ability to do their job to protect the public safety and to ensure that all riders in Portland have universal access to these services and are not being somehow discriminated by income level or zip code or any other sophisticated means that may be encompassed in the Grayball technology.
 And that's why I feel we are compelled to seek the subpoena, to see this information, to assure that we can do our job and we can protect our public.
 And so I thank my colleagues, and I also really wanted to thank people at PBOT and our city attorney's office earlier. I also want to thank Tia Williams in my office for doing an outstanding job in organizing and helping to make sure this investigation was done in a timely manner and that we're at the point where we're at today. So thank you, Tia, for your work as well. Hi. You daily? I'm pleased to support this ordinance. I think...
 I've had ongoing concerns about Uber and other sharing economy platforms rolling into town, flouting local laws, and seeing what they could get away with and how far they can push local governments. And I think it's time for us to show them how far they can push. I'm also puzzled when people come to give testimony in front of this body
 and blame us for the actions of past councils. We have two people sitting here that voted against the Uber ordinance and two people that weren't on council. And I guess I just have to get used to being part of an entity that gets part of that phenomenon, although I resent it. And I think it's meaningful that Commissioner Saltzman is the one to bring this forward because...
 He's supported Uber in the past and is now doing his job to protect the public. Aye. Franks.
 I had an interesting conversation last week with Tom Chamberlain of the Oregon AFL-CIO, and he is working with some of the – and I agree with Mr. Johnson, sharing economy is not at all descriptive of what these companies do. He's working with some of the drivers who, having been lured into working for Uber and Lyft –
 especially Uber, then suddenly found that Uber slashed prices, which meant that they had to work even longer hours in order to make a decent living. And in fact, many of them do work full-time for it with no benefits and much less ability to affect their own future than if they worked for a traditional taxi cab company. So I...
 I found that interesting. Obviously, it's a group of employees who don't even get the respect of being called employees who are reaching out to unions saying, how can we push back against this giant who's in our country and in our city indeed? So I appreciate that assistance, and thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your leadership on this. Hi. Wheeler. Hi.
 I'd like to add my thanks. Commissioner Saltzman and his team, I think, did an exemplary effort of putting together the framework for this conversation and the framework for an investigation. I want to thank those at the staff level in the bureaus who worked very hard to provide us with factual and accurate information. And I want to reflect that...
 Going into this subpoena situation should always be a last resort for us. But as regulators, this is a tool that we need to be able to ensure that we're doing our jobs. And Commissioner Fish did a great job of laying out the facts. The reason we are doing this is we need access to documents that we believe are there that...
 what is already on the factual record in terms of an effort to circumvent local regulators and local regulations. And therefore, we need access to this information. And this is the tool that we have at our disposal as a local city council to gain access to the information to which we're entitled. So it brings me...
 and my colleagues no pleasure to have to do this, but this is what we have to do to get the information we need in order to be effective regulators of this market. So I strongly support the effort you've brought forth, Commissioner Saltzman, and I join my colleagues in voting aye. So the ordinance is...
 is now adopted, and I will now call the vote on 468, which is the resolution. I don't know if people have anything else to add, but we need to vote for that separately. So if you could call the roll on 468, the resolution.
 Yeah, I'm going to vote aye on this, and it is, I think, the council's hope that within about two weeks we'll have a separate ordinance and companion resolution that comes to council that delegates to the Revenue Bureau the authority to issue administrative subpoenas and to make some additional proposed changes to code.
 Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. Please call the next item. Item 469, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Tabor Powell Sewer Rehabilitation Phase 2, project number E10382, for an estimated $1,875,000. Commissioner Fish. Aye.
 Mayor, it's a little unusual for the commissioner in charge to pass the buck to a backbencher, but I'll do my best. It's in the spirit of cooperation. I will do my very best as the recovering commissioner in charge of the Bureau. This project in southeast Portland is part of the Bureau of Environmental Services Phase 2 Sewer Rehabilitation Program to replace and to repair highly deteriorated sewer pipes.
 The project calls for a variety of repairs and rehabilitation at a total of about three miles of sewer pipe. It will protect the public health.
 and our environment by increasing sewer system capacity and reliability and reducing the risk of sewage releases to homes, businesses, and streets. If approved, construction would begin in September and last about a year. We're joined today by Bill Ryan and Colleen Harold from BES. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, and good afternoon, as a community.
 Let's turn that mic on. Someone turned it off. I'm sorry. Is the green light on? There you go. I'm sorry. I am Bill Ryan. I am the Chief Engineer for the Bureau of Environmental Services. And with me today is Colleen Harold, who is the Project Manager for this very exciting project. She's got a presentation to describe the project a little more. And afterward, we can answer any questions you may have.
 Colleen. Thank you so much. We're here today to ask for the authorization to approve the ordinance to advertise the $1.87 million contract for Tabor Powell Sewer Rehabilitation Project.
 This is the 31st project in 39 planned in the large-scale program. There's 165,000 feet of pipe already constructed or rehabilitated to date in this program. The total expenditures through the third quarter of 2017 equal $98.4 million. Thank you.
 the tabor pal 2 project is made up of two distinct districts or areas they're shown in green on the map nestled within the large-scale sewer rehab program projects that are in yellow the southern most project is bounded on the north side by powell on the west side by 42nd avenue on the east by 74th avenue and on the south by holgate and foster the northerly
 Green project is bounded on the north side by I-84, on the west by 42nd, on the east by 66th Avenue, and on the south by Stark Street. Thank you.
 These are your favorite slides. I know they are. They're mine, too. This project replaces or rehabilitates highly deteriorated sewer pipes. This really allows me to be a forensic scientist when it comes to sewer and really determine whether a pipe is in or out of the scope of my work. The top two examples are typical mainline pipe defects.
 and they show deteriorated pipe that needs repair. The bottom two are lateral defects that show holes in pipes and roots that really inhibit flow to the main line. By replacing or rehabilitating mains, sewer laterals, and manholes, this project will protect public health, property, and the environment, increase sewer system capacity and reliability, and most importantly, reduce risk and sewage releases to homes and businesses.
 Some statistics about our project. There's 67 pipe segments in this work. Close to three miles of pipe planned for rehabilitation by Cured in Place UV. There's 14,313 linear feet in this project alone, with a small amount to be open cut, 431 feet. Six spot repairs, and the pipe ranges from 8-inch to 36-inch diameter.
 The vintage of the pipe is 1905 to 1955. It makes 112 years old as the oldest pipe in the project. 70% are in residential streets with 30% in major roadways. PI. Outreach for the suite of the Tabor Pell projects began in 2014.
 It covers four projects. It covers the Tabor Project in Phase 1, the PAL in Phase 1, CIPP Southeast in Phase 2, and now Tabor PAL 2 in Phase 2. Work for all of the four projects has been tracked with the public on mapping, including online and through print.
 Since all four projects are within the same geographical area and boundaries, and some in the same streets in many cases, we determined that trying to communicate each individual project separately would be too confusing. So rolling it up in the information into ongoing communications as a whole would be more effective. So that's what they did.
 Work for these projects has been communicated to the public as phases of one ongoing project, with this being the last. Taper Pal 2 will follow work on the same streets as in Phases 1, and so representing them as the single program, as two phases, with multiple phases, has been easier to understand for the public.
 As the phase one projects, we have continued our partnership with coordination and coordination with various neighbors and businesses. We have Providence Hospital that we've been working closely with to access their campus for our work and performing the maintenance and repairs that's needed on their property. We have also worked with Portland Nursery around their large popular annual Apple Festival on Stark Street.
 BSPI staff has been providing monthly and quarterly updates to neighbors and businesses by mail.
 And a noise permit has been issued and received by us for the project following all requirements of the noise office. We received no comments in opposition to the project, and communications received were about schedule, types of work, the construction methods, and we also requested from some neighbors to be added to the e-mail list. Okay.
 This is a really exciting project for BES and for me personally. I've worked hard to specify this as the UV cure only project. So we've specified that as the method of cure. It's an innovative sewer rehabilitation method that offers distinct advantages to the city. This is the first project that allows the city to gain experience and knowledge using this method.
 To date, it has been successfully installed on several smaller projects. They're using it on the Yamhill-Morrison job currently. Half of the project is UV. We also used it on the First and Madison courthouse pipe that was included in the development project.
 We believe this project will showcase this technology as viable and economical rehabilitation method. We have extensive experience with ThermalCure, but not with UV, and we really want to try it. With ThermalCure, we know that there's styrene odor. With UV, there is no odor.
 at least not styrene. There is a slightly smaller equipment footprint that we look forward to sort of tracking and making sure it's smaller than the thermal.
 We've worked to contract potential vendors and contractors to assure a competitive pool will bid this project. Six potential contractors indicate that they will be primes and bid this project. They have been directed to procurement to go through the pre-qual requirements.
 Lastly, and finally, the engineer's estimate, again, is $1,875,000. The level of confidence is high. This represents our best professional estimate of what this will cost. The pricing of the UV work is less certain simply because we have less experience with this technology. Lastly, we will begin construction in September, and our construction duration is 325 days. Thank you. Very good. Any questions before we move to public testimony? Yes.
 Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Can I just make one comment? Yes, please, Commissioner Fitch. Commissioner Fritz, we had that slide in there for your benefit because as our professional overseeing the project noted, we're using a UV technology. And it actually is very exciting. The curing goes on inside with ultraviolet light. And among the benefits is a more durable outcome with less odor. Odor.
 So why is that especially for me? Because you asked me once about it. No, because you and I, over the course of eight or nine years, have had many conversations about ultraviolet fill-in-the-blank. Oh, got it. Yeah.
 All right, good. Seeing no further questions or comments, thank you for the presentation. This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second. Colleagues, could I suggest we go through the second readings? There are four of them. Quickly, and then let's stop, because I'm sure people would like to take a break prior to – we have a fairly lengthy agenda this afternoon. Bill, could you come back at 2, and we'll do 470? Okay. Okay.
 And so let's do this. First of all, 475 is being rescheduled to May 24th. So I'll just state that for the record. So 475 is off the agenda. Carla, could you please call item number, sorry? Before you make a suggestion, the things that we have this afternoon are going to take quite some time too. Commissioner Fish, is this accepting the report, the 470, is that something that needs to be done today? Or could we put that over until next week? Sure.
 No, no, we've actually rescheduled it three times. Fourth would be the charm. Bill, could we do that? Could we put over next week? Okay, so 470 will be returned to my office, or actually continue to next week, Carla? Yes, continue to next week.
 Very good. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And colleagues, I've noticed that we've been way off on the estimates of presentations, and I think we've undershot in terms of public testimony. And I think I can hold people to tighter constraints around public testimony as well. I think between all of those three things, while I've got the bureaus, I will work with all of our bureau leadership to talk about
 getting clearer estimates and a clearer understanding of how long these presentations will actually take. And, Mayor, I don't know what our practice is, but on the time certain, I think it is the Bureau's obligation to guesstimate the amount of public testimony. Yeah, very good. I think we all have a sense about certain issues being more controversial than others. Yeah, exactly. So I think we can work that out. So if you wouldn't mind, Carla, could read item 471, please.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the construction of the Northwest Industrial Street and 28th Avenue sewer rehabilitation project number E10782 for an estimated $2 million. Is there a further discussion on the part of the council? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Adopted 472, please. Aye.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Slabtown sewer replacement project, number E10663, for an estimated $8.86 million. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The solicitation and contract is approved. Could you please call item 473?
 authorize a competitive solicitation for security services for the Smart Park garages and the Portland streetcar facility at an estimated amount of $4 million for five years. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The solicitation is approved. And then I think there was one more. Yes, 477, please. Authorize...
 $73,996 total in grant agreements for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement East Portland Action Plan 2017 Civic Engagement Grant Agreements to further community involvement. Is there any further comment or discussion? Commissioner Fish? No. Call the roll, please.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? It's the very definition of devoted staff that Lord Wintergreen has been sitting here all morning to make sure that we all said yes. Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 Aye. The grant agreement is approved. So, colleagues, we'll reach out to your offices with regard to the rest of the agenda. I'll just put the thought in your head. There may be time Thursday of this week at 3.30. Alternatively, we can just push it off until next week. So think on that, and we'll touch base with you. Good morning. Very good. All right. We are adjourned.
 So, Ms. Stafford, can you work with Commissioner Fritz? She has some things that need to get out to bid ASAP. So we should probably move them to Thursday at 3.30 for those. Rather than doing them this afternoon? Unfortunately, we have a really long agenda for this afternoon. We could potentially do it at the end of the... Or we could come in maybe at 1.30 tomorrow so that we don't... I'd be fine with that. What I'm seeing is the ones that I need to get done this week are 474...
 475 is back to my office, I don't mind that one. 476 would be good too. And... Yes, hey. I think that's the only one I don't mind. How's it nice to see you? How are you doing? Great. Just those two. Yes. Excellent. Right industry, right time. Right time. That's right. I was wondering if you could get a quick... They're both parks here, so we can reach out to Christina. Hang on. Or anybody really. Why...
 Why do you need to talk with them? Yeah, so they're parks things, but obviously you can just talk to Janine and she can find the right person for you always. Either way, I just need to have them done this week, so whichever the mayor decides.
 come in at two. You're just one person. One, two. Oh, in that case we can do it right at two then. Great, thank you. Okay, I'll tell them probably. Commissioner Fritz, we're going to take one item at two because they've been waiting and they want to get back to their business. So we'll just come in at two and we'll take it. And Mustafa, figure out which item that is. I'll make sure it's on the agenda. Okay.
 two that I was concerned about yeah I'm so sorry you had to wait it's a very nice bento place across the street in the Portland building bento yeah thank you thank you
 Okay. Good.
 All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council on Wednesday, May 10, 2017. I'm going to shorten my script. Everybody, please respect everybody else. Name for the record. If you come up to testify, please no interruptions or disruptions. If you disrupt testimony or council deliberations, I'll have to ask you to stop. And if I have to ask you twice, you're probably going to be asked to leave. Thank you.
 And if you don't leave after you've been asked, you're probably subject to arrest for trespassing. Nobody wants that, so let's all just behave. We had three items that have time sensitivity to them that we did not complete this morning, so we're going to go ahead and do that. Carla, could you please call the roll? Sure. Saltzman? Okay.
 Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And I believe Commissioner Saltzman will be here. His stuff is all here. First item 474, please call it.
 Accept bid of Duke Construction and Excavation LLC for the Argy Park Tennis Court Improvements Project for $581,193. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, everybody, for your patience in coming back after the lunch break. I'm waiting all morning. I'm going to introduce Lauren. No, actually, I'm not going to introduce her. I'm just going to say, please carry on.
 Hello, Mayor Wheeler and members of council. My name is Lauren McGuire. I'm the Parks Development Program Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. With me is Larry Platt from Procurement and Joel Hutchinson, Project Manager for the park we're talking about. We're here today to accept a bid from Duke Construction for the Argate Park Tennis Court Project for $581,192. Argate Park is located at Northeast 141st Avenue and Failing Street.
 The project is part of the 2014 bond program that was generously passed by voters who approved the $68 million bond measure to address critical park needs without increasing tax rates. The bond funding that goes towards parks' urgent needs includes repair in failing playgrounds, trails and bridges, pools, facilities to protect workers, pioneer courthouse wear, accessibility improvements, restroom improvements, and other urgent safety improvements. Thank you.
 This particular project falls into the restroom and other category, which is to fix and replace restroom and other urgent repairs such as our tennis courts. So here's the four-argue tennis court image. We're here talking about the tennis courts and the improvements that we're going to do to those tennis courts.
 The tennis court's improvements include replacing the tennis court's subgrade and playing surface, replacing the lighting, fencing, and net stanchions and player benches. And we're also going to remove more than 30 invasive holly trees, which obstruct sight lines from the street and support undesirable behavior in the park. And we're going to be replacing that with a landscape design that follows the principles of crime prevention through environmental design.
 We're also going to be removing some of the accessibility barriers by constructing new ADA-compliant pathways to the tennis court and installing new ADA-compliant drinking fountains near the tennis court. The 2014 bond funding will be paying for all these improvements. These original courts were constructed in 1974, more than 40 years ago, and they're now in pretty poor condition and not really playable. Thank you.
 To show you a little more detail of the improvements that are happening, the slide illustrates some of the ways we'll be addressing them. The red rectangle shows the tennis courts. The blue circle shows where the holly trees are being removed and replaced with new deciduous trees in a different arrangement. And the yellow rectangle shows pathway improvements being made to increase accessibility to the tennis courts.
 The purple dot here shows the location of the new ADA-compliant drinking fountain. The timeline for the Argate Park Tennis Course improvements is as follows. The design and construction drawings have been completed with the assistance of Harper, Hoff, Peterson, and Regalas, and we've also talked to the Argate Neighborhood Association.
 Permit drawings have been approved by the Bureau of Development Services, and now we're here requesting council approval to accept the bid for construction. We anticipate this will start this summer, and we hope to finish it this year. Some of the projects in the bond going forward are listed here. You can see the projects under construction and the upcoming construction as well.
 So, Larry, would you like to take it from here? Good afternoon. I'm Larry Palat for Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Duke Construction and Excavation for the Argate Park Tennis Court project.
 The engineer's estimate on this project was $500,000 with a confidence level of medium. On March 23, 2017, three bids were received in Duke Construction as the low bidder at $581,192.73, which is 16.24% over the estimate. Portland Parks and Recreation conducted a bid analysis and determined that the bid items came in higher primarily due to the current labor demand in the commercial construction market.
 The city put forward an aspirational goal for disadvantaged minority women in emerging small business subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction costs. Duke Construction identified four divisions of work for the DMWESB participation, with subcontracting participation at 27.4%, with work being performed in concrete, paving, landscaping, and fencing.
 Duke Construction and Excavation is a state-certified emerging small business, so the combined prime and subcontractor participation on this project is 73%, which is very good. Yeah, that's great. Thank you. Any other questions? I have two questions. What's the surface of the tennis court? It's eight inches of aggregate base and then three inches of asphalt, and there's an acrylic top surface. Okay.
 What would you compare that to within our system? I'm not sure I understand the question, what I compare it to. So we have different kinds of tennis courts in our system. What would be an example of another tennis court that has a similar set of specifications? Oh, Berkeley Tennis Court in southeast Portland is the court that we modeled this one after. And...
 This says you're also replacing the lighting. Yes. So I'm just curious, what are the hours of operation with the lights? The lights operate from dusk until 10 p.m. Until 10 p.m.?
 Fantastic. Thank you very much. And those tennis courts in Berkeley, that's the Alex Ravello tennis courts, right? I'm sorry? That's the Alex Ravello tennis courts in Berkeley Park. Yes, they are. Berkeley Park. That's correct. Thank you. Great. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. I move the procurement report. Second. Motion, Commissioner Fish. Second, Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll.
 Fish? I'm delighted you're upgrading some tennis courts. Believe it or not, I used to be a pretty good tennis player, but I hung up my racket a long time ago. But these kinds of courts are just another amenity that we offer the public, and I'm glad that the bond was able to fund this. Hi. Fritz? Glad to be able to provide this opportunity.
 in one of our few parks in East Portland. This is one of the few that was actually eligible for the Fix Our Parks money on account of how it actually has tennis courts, but they're not currently playable. So thank you all for your work. And thank you again to the voters for approving the tax. Aye. Wheeler? Thank you for bringing this forward. And the pictures speak a thousand words. I will vote aye. Commissioner Udaly is here. Udaly? Aye. Thank you.
 All right. The bid is accepted, and next we'll move to item 476, same players, different issue. That's right. Thank you. I'm sorry. It has to be read first. Accept bid of K&E Excavating Inc. for the Reiki Field Synthetic Turf Replacement Project for $731,585. All right.
 Thank you again. So as Carla read, we're here to accept this bid again. Rickey Field is located at 1405 Southwest Vermont Street, and it's part of the 2014 bond again. Again, it's part of the restroom and other category.
 And as far as the field itself goes, this was one of the oldest fields that we had as well. The slide shows Reekie Field located at Reekie Elementary School adjacent to Wilson High School. The field is part of Portland Parks and Portland Public Schools Joint Facilities Program, where the property is actually owned by the public schools, and we are the ones owning and maintaining the actual asset there.
 It's the second ever synthetic field that we had in Portland, and this existing field is outdated, unsafe, and not meeting national standards for playability. Portland Parks discontinued issuing permits on this in 2009, and it's still used by Reiki elementary students for recess and physical ed on a daily basis. The existing field has significant drainage and surrounding issues, and the surrounding sloped area has eroded, causing sediment issues as well.
 Again, we have severe ADA challenges here that we're trying to address. The project seeks to replace the field in its entirety, and it'll be actually a little bit larger. The goals of the project are to provide a field that's safe for play, that's a durable field that can be used year-round, and that is an accessible field.
 Field improvements will include removing and responsibly recycling the existing synthetic turf. We'll also regrade the field and the surrounding lawn for accessibility and slope stability. We're going to be installing new field drainage system for stormwater management, and we'll install new industry standard synthetic turf and infill consistent with the city's guidelines. It will be recycled crumb rubber.
 The field will be lined for soccer and both men's and women's lacrosse as well. We'll be making ADA improvements, installing one ADA accessible van and one standard parking space. We'll be providing an accessible walkway from the main parking area to the field, and we'll be providing an accessible drinking fountain as well.
 As far as the timing for this project goes, we finished the design and construction with David Evans and Associates. We've talked to the public at two open houses in March and in May. Our permit drawings have been issued, and we're here for acceptance of the bid. The project should happen this summer. Again, the projects that we're working on currently in the bond and the upcoming projects. Larry?
 Good afternoon again. You have before you the procurement report for recommending a contract to K&E Excavating for the Reiki Field Turf Replacement Project. The engineer's estimate on the project was $969,906.
 With a moderate confidence level, on March 28, 2017, two bids were received, and K&E Excavating is the low bidder at $731,585, approximately 22% under the engineer's estimate. The city put forward an aspirational goal for disadvantaged minority women in emerging small business subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction contract.
 costs for this project. K&E Excavating identified two divisions of work for DMW ESB opportunities with participation at 5.2% or $38,345.50, with work being performed in trucking and landscaping. This project is particularly challenged based on the surrounding topographical issues and significant technical expertise required.
 I will turn this back over to the council now for questions. There is a representative from K&E here if there are specific questions. Thank you. So I have some specific questions. Yes, you bet. Having spent most of my daughter's childhood on this field, I might have lobbied Commissioner Fritz to include this in the bond effort. So a couple questions.
 You mentioned the challenges with the site and the drainage. The problem with the old field is there was a hill and an incline, and when it rained, it meant that dirt and other debris came down the hill and then came onto the field and degraded the field. And when it rained a lot, the field actually took on water and became unplayable because you'd have several inches of water and that is not safe for kids to play in.
 How are you addressing the runoff of water on the incline, and also how are you addressing drainage of water on the site? I know that Gary Detka, who is the project manager for this project and couldn't be here right now, I know that he has –
 for different kinds of grading on the site to address your issue? I don't know the specifics of that, but I can get that answer for you. Yeah, just, I mean, it's a rare instance where I have personal experience with the two problems, the drainage on the hill, and that just brings sediment and dirt and other things onto the field. And second, the field itself, when it rains hard, doesn't drain, the current field, which is probably why you stopped permitting it.
 So those are – I assume you're addressing both in the design? Correct. And we have the contractor here, so he could probably address. Can I ask a couple? Yeah. You've been very patient. I think you've been here all day, so we should give you two contracts while you're here.
 My name is Brian Littlefield with K&E Excavating. Maybe to answer your question about the grading, there is a hill, a small little knoll on, I guess, the north side of that field, and that all gets taken away. So that will help some of the slopage. It will also help with spectators. Yeah. Put some stands there. And the field itself has a flat pipe that runs –
 At a 45-degree angle down the center of the field, and that takes all the groundwater into that pipe and takes it out to header pipes around the perimeter of the field. And then that takes it out to a main line, which takes it out to the system. So that should allow kids to play on the field while it's raining? Yeah, and it's pretty common on a lot of these fields. We've done some of them with the same design. And what's the surface you're using on this field? Okay.
 That is another. It's field turf, Nike field turf. Nike field turf. So, Commissioner Fritz, is that the same surface we used at Buckman? I'm not familiar with what was done at Buckman. How was this selected? It's Nike. Nike, Portland Parks has an agreement with Nike, and they have a branding agreement.
 a branding agreement with Nike for... So it's their highest specification surface, right? Yes. All of PP and R are specific. I'm sorry. I was just going to say that was certainly an issue of concern for the parents at Reiki, and I know Elizabeth Kennedy Wong and others in our communications team had a lot of backwards and forwards about exactly what kind of turf, including doing a very comprehensive study. Did you want to comment on that at all, Lauren? Yeah, I can talk a little bit to that. This is post-consumer crumb rubber that we're using
 in this particular case but we do have uh... we haven't talking about whether we might be able to even use that you pdm which is the new synthetic crumb rubber so from my point of view that that that nike product is a very safe and durable products are not i'm not i'm a big believer in synthetic as you get more more use out of itself i would defer to you on that final question i have is that
 We've had robust conversations at council before about whether certain fields should or should not be lit. And the virtue of this field is it's surrounded by commercial properties and a school, so it doesn't have the potentially negative impact on homeowners. I see that this includes...
 and provisions for future sports field lighting. The advantage of putting lighting in, of course, is you can almost double the usage of the field. What are the current plans to put lighting in the field? We don't have this in our bond budget, so we don't have lighting for this particular field. So, Commissioner, is this eligible for SDC investment in lights? Yes.
 It would be if we had any left, but I think most, almost all of it has been allocated already. Well, I just remind everyone, I think that was the third vote on raising the limit on SDC revenues.
 This is a field I care deeply about, and by putting lights on it, it ensures that families in that area get about a 50% greater usage without adversely impacting the surrounding neighbors. So I'm going to vote for this, but I'd also like to work with my colleagues to find the resources for lights. Well, as you remember, Commissioner, you put the adding of lights to be a conditional use permit, so we'd have to go through that process. We'll look into what we've done at Dunaway Park. Even though there's no lighting there, we have the –
 electrical conduit and other such fittings are underneath the new surfaces so that in the future it would be relatively easy so we can perhaps look into it. I don't know whether that's being done here or we could look into it. All I would ask is that at some point someone could get back to me with what a lighting plan would look like and what the cost would be. And then I'll take it up with the Commissioner in charge. Sure. Thank you. Any further questions at this point?
 Brian, thank you in particular for your patience. We appreciate it very much. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one said. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. I move the report. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you. And thank you for being here, sir. Aye. Aye.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? Well, it was very helpful that you did stay and come back because, indeed, we had questions that you were the one able to answer them. So thank you very much. You're welcome. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. And, again, thanks for your patience.
 Next item 478, please. Authorize contract with Moss Adams LLP for financial and federal compliance audits of the city and its reporting entities for three years and up to five years, starting with the statements for fiscal year 2016-17 and other professional services, not to exceed $2,976,059. And speaking of patience, thank you and good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners.
 I'm Drummond Kahn, the Director of Audit Services in the City Auditor's Office. I'm here today with Fiona Earle, who is a Principal Management Auditor and manages the contract for the audit of the City's financial statements. I know it sounds exciting, but we'll try to keep it very brief. Under Oregon State law and City Charter, the City is required to complete an annual audit of the City's financial statements. The audit has to be conducted by a licensed municipal audit firm.
 As the contract manager, the city auditor's office oversees a contract with an outside firm to conduct this required audit. We're here today to obtain your authorization for a new financial audit contract because the existing contract expires this month. The materials we submitted explain the open and competitive process we use to advertise, collect, and evaluate the bids that we received. And we're happy to field any questions you have about the selection process or about the annual financial statement audit.
 Questions? Public testimony? Please call the roll. No one signed up. Fish? Aye. Daly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Aye. Wheeler? So it was a two-minute presentation. You waited all day, and Commissioner Fish still yawned. That's probably a good sign. It was quality time. Thank you for bringing this. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. I'm now adjourned.
 we are now adjourning the meeting of the Portland City Council. We are now reconvening as the Portland Development Commission Budget Committee on Wednesday, May 10th, afternoon session. As members of the Budget Committee, we've all received copies of the budget on Tuesday, May 2nd. I'd now request that the Council Clerk call the roll. Thanks, Susan. I'm sorry, what are we voting on? It's the budget for the PDC.
 Please call the roll. Fish. We're voting. No, we're not voting. You're the Portland Development Commission Budget Committee today. So we're accepting the budget. We're saying here rather than voting, right? Yes, we're saying here. This is not a vote. Sorry, Commissioner. It's a roll call. Roll call. Fish. Thank you. Saltzman. Thank you. Here, yes.
 You daily? I'll do what I'm told. I'm just trying to get the clear instructions. It's very challenging to be on stage all morning and then turn right back in to figure out what's going on. It's harder than it might look, although we appreciate everybody's help on this. Here. Wheeler. Here. Thank you. I now request that the Portland Development Commission present the budget message. I have a few initial remarks prior.
 Few things promote progress in our community better than well-paying jobs. I'm committed to bringing living wage jobs to Portland and matching Portlanders with those opportunities. New jobs are certainly coming our way, but not all jobs are created equal.
 We need jobs that support middle-class families, not just lower-wage work. Through the work that the Portland Development Commission will be doing moving forward, I support their focus on shared prosperity for all Portlanders. PDC is innovating to support entrepreneurs, as well as bringing economic vitality to neighborhoods through the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative that my colleagues and I have heard much about.
 favorable information about. The PDC budget we're considering today reflects nearly a year of work engaging the community. I want to thank the PDC staff, stakeholders, board, and city leaders in developing a budget that will allow the PDC to advance its mission to create economic growth and importantly, opportunity for Portland.
 That mission has been shaped by the current reality that while our economy demonstrates business and employment growth, its benefits still aren't reaching all Portlanders.
 To align its communication and engagement, PDC's board is today adopting a new communication strategy that recommends a new name for the agency, and I endorse that needed step to demonstrate the agency's commitment to building an equitable economy. Together, we'll use our resources and talent to deliver growth and opportunities for all Portland residents. I now request that the Portland Development Commission present the budget message.
 Chair Kelly. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. I'd also like to thank the many people involved in the preparation of this budget. It is truly a community and collaborative effort. As we move into the third year of our strategic plan. And Tom, I'm sorry, I should have said everybody needs to identify themselves for the record. I apologize for the interruption. Tom Kelly, Chair of the Portland Development Commission. Thank you, sir. Sorry about that. I know better.
 As we move into the third year of our strategic plan, PDC continues to focus its work to address Portland's ongoing challenge to be a place that offers opportunity and economic growth to all of its residents. Our general fund request prioritizes resources essential to implement the strategic plan's focus on inclusive economic growth. Thank you, Mayor, for your proposed budget that maintains key citywide economic development functions.
 The budget also recognizes the importance of implementing strategies and plans we have in place to assist key areas of the city, including North Northeast Community Development Initiative and action plans in Gateway, Lentz, Old Town, Chinatown, as well as the 45% set-aside for affordable housing.
 Over the next five years, PDC's budget and forecast will recognize the need to generate new revenues and resources to sustain the agency's ability to deliver on its mission to create economic growth and opportunity for Portland. Currently in draft form, the new plan will ensure PDC optimizes public benefits and financial returns. Later this afternoon, as the Mayor mentioned, the PDC Board will take up the proposed adoption of a new communication strategy and brand for the agency.
 I am proud of this strategy and look forward to the agency's continued contributions to make Portland a city we can be proud of. On a personal note, I think this will be my last time before you as the chair of the Portland Development Commission. And I just want to say that, first of all, I believe that the state of the PDC is strong. And I'm proud of where I'll be leaving it.
 I want to thank all of you. I've enjoyed working with the City Commission in collaboration, and I think it's a great example of good government in our city. Thank you, Chair. I'll turn it over to Kimberly. Thank you, Chair Kelly. I'm Kimberly Branham, Executive Director of the Portland Development Commission. So good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners.
 I just want to echo or publicly state my appreciation to the chair for his service. I've had an opportunity to see how much time he puts into this and how much heart he puts into this work, and his wise counsel is going to be missed, so we appreciate his leadership. So I'm pleased to be here today. I'm joined by Lisa Abouaf, who's our Development and Investment Director, and Tony Barnes, who is our ever-capable budget officer and responsible for what Lisa and I are going to explain. Thank you.
 So we're pleased to be here to talk about the fiscal year 17-18 proposed budget. I'm going to provide some context and give a high-level overview of the fiscal year 17-18 budget within the framework of our strategic plan and our long-term future. And then Lisa will provide an overview URA by urban renewal area by urban renewal area. And then I'll close out with a sneak peek at our new brand. Thank you.
 So as illustrated during the March 21st budget work session, we align our budget and five-year forecast with the four objectives of the strategic plan today because we have already shared with you in depth our general fund and other non-TIF resources. We will be particularly focused on the healthy, complete neighborhood plan.
 area of focus, which is 99 percent supported by tax increment finance, which are resources that support capital improvements, but will also touch on equitable wealth creation and access to employment. PDC's total estimated resources are $342 million for the next fiscal year. Approximately half of the resources available is cash on hand represented by the beginning fund balance from prior bond sales and tax increment, land sales and other program income.
 About one-third of the resources will be from new tax increment resources, mainly in Interstate, Lentz, River District, and North McAdam Urban Renewal Area. Consistent with prior years, the general fund resources represent about 2% of planned resources. Thank you.
 So, well, on May 17th, you'll take action to approve and consider the 17-18 budget. We've included in the budget documents received a five-year forecast so that you can see the plans for the urban renewal areas. Because they are largely capital, they can be, you know, they can really...
 differ year to year and so a five-year look can show better sometimes our priorities. Over that period in total, there will be almost $660 million in expenditures. That's both for the Portland Housing Bureau and the Portland Development Commission. The majority of expenditures over the next five years will be related to property development, notably in Lens Town Center, Old Town Chinatown, and Gateway Action Plan.
 As seen by the housing expenditure, a total close to $200 million over the next five years will be expended. Much of that is front-loaded in this year in interstate urban renewal area North McAdam and Lentz. Economic development funding is available through general funds, CDBG, and E-Zone resources. We've been conservative in our forecast because of the anticipation of a reduction in community development block grant dollars from the federal government.
 PDC works closely with our colleagues at the Portland Housing Bureau, and I see that Kurt is here, so if there are any questions about priorities there, he is available to answer those, to program the timing of the housing set-aside.
 Looking from fiscal year 15-16, which was the beginning of the revised policy, the TIF lift, through the completion of all urban renewal areas, we are on track to spend approximately $281 million, or 45% in new TIF resources, as well as the remaining $20 million from the closeout districts.
 Taking into account the last two years and the proposed 17-18 budget, we are largely spending ahead with regard to affordable housing with the exception of the Central East Side and the Gateway Urban Renewal areas.
 So as we look at our investments, we're heartened to see that much of our impact has achieved desired outcomes from recruiting more than 2,000 quality jobs and achieving a 10 to 1 leverage ratio. However, we also have room for improvement with MWESB DBE participation just meeting the policy objective of 20%.
 With our loan and grant tools, we've begun to update our products and tools with the new strategic plan focus. So, for example, we have a prosperity investment program, which is a consolidation of our storefront improvement plan and our development opportunity services, and it also now allows for internal tenant improvements. Nearly 70% of the resources today since we launched that program in September identify as people of color.
 As part of our business plan work over the last year, PDC, in conjunction with the Office of Debt Management, has been refining estimates for the city general fund taxes returned from URA defeasance. So what you see here is an illustration between fiscal year 17-18 and fiscal year 20-34-35.
 and you'll see some key inflection points when for example in 2021 the airport way and neighborhood prosperity initiative districts will pay um pay off and so resources will be returned to the tax to to city county and state school fund resources what you see in front of you represents the portion that is anticipated to come back to city council to the city of portland
 In 24-25, the downtown waterfront, South Park Block, Central East Side, and River District are set to defuse. And then there will be another increase in 25-26 with the closeout of the interstate and Oregon Convention Center urban renewal areas. This takes you through the end of the Lentz District Gateway and North McAdam in 20-32-33.
 So the blue line illustrates total estimated return taxes, about $380 million during this period. And then the red line takes into account compression discounts and delinquencies. So it's effectively a more conservative assessment of what would be returned to the tax rolls.
 The green line illustrates the funding that PDC has been carrying in one of the models for the long-term business plan. And we realize that this is not yet a conversation we have brought to you in a work session. We plan to do that over the summer. So this is for illustrative purposes. But we wanted to make sure as there were conversations about the return of resources to city council that you had this kind of order of magnitude look.
 Kimberly, is your projection of return of resources net of any properties that we may assign to you to develop? No.
 Is this just a cash flow issue? Yeah, this is just cash flow. So this is not our asset management. These are just resources that are returned. So it doesn't presuppose we've changed your business model in any way. This is just the cash flow. Right. This is almost from your perspective as stewards of public resources for the city of Portland. What could you anticipate returning to your coffers? Yes.
 So with the, what you have in this graph is a representation of the long-term business plan model. So you see in the darkest blue existing resources. So these are tax increment finance resources, community development block grant dollars, general fund resources. And then you see that there's a portion where we identify new public resources. So that's where we would
 ideally like to see an increase in general fund or some other source of resources. That's effectively our gap at this point. But then we also have an area which we are calling mission-related investments and then program-related investments. And so those are the potential returns that were we to invest, as we are showing in our budget, and be able to have –
 to really optimize both public benefits and financial return of our TIF assets, we could secure significant resources to help offset our operations costs. What you'll see is that by 2026, TIF funds supporting PDC's operating budget will be eliminated, and so the remaining resources in that bottom level are general fund community development block grants and others. Go to the next slide. Thank you.
 So as we begin to implement the business plan, we are thus beginning to talk more about how planned investments fit into the investment categories, which are crucial to the business plan assumptions.
 Looking at our five-year expenditure plan through the investment category lens, so this is different from business lines that we talk about in our budget. The three primary categories are infrastructure and grants. So we anticipate investing about 26% of our resources in grants and infrastructure and not expecting that we would get any financial return.
 Approximately 34% are just over $100 million in program-related investments. So these are investments where we would anticipate a below market rate of return, a higher public benefit, but a return of capital. And then finally, mission-related investments that maintain key public benefits but are expected to provide a market rate of return, so somewhere between 4% to 6%.
 It's worth noting that this graph does not include the housing expenditures. If we were to put housing back in, housing would represent just over 37% of total expenditures at about $185 million during this time period.
 All right. So looking at the nine urban renewal areas, this is meant to not to look at in detail, but just to see that each urban renewal area has a different makeup in terms of what portion is focused on grants and infrastructure, what portion is focused on program-related investments, and then what portion is focused on mission-related investments. So
 In the top line, you have our neighborhood urban renewal areas. We are not anticipating doing any mission-related investments. These are what we'll anticipate below market returns and grants and infrastructures. North McAdam is heavily infrastructure grant and program related in the next five years.
 So at the bottom line, the River District, the Central East Side, and the Oregon Convention Center are heavily programmed to mission-related investments. So these are both markets because they're in the central city where we know the market can absorb that, but also where a lot of the primary public benefits have already been achieved. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Lisa, but I'm happy to answer any questions now, or Lisa can go through the urban renewal areas. Thank you.
 Go ahead. Okay. You're good to go. Thank you. Thanks, Lisa. No problem. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Lisa Radloff with the Portland Development Commission, and I'm the Interim Director of Development Investment, and we're going to walk through slides, urban renewal area by urban renewal area, but you'll note for the purposes of folks who are trying to see the smaller versions of the allocation between different kinds of investments, we have an expanded version by urban renewal area here.
 So starting with interstate, the North Northeast Community Development Initiative that came before council in January guides our investments of about $32 million of new investment over the next five years. And then we had approximately $10 million of existing commitments also within the urban renewal area. The Community Development Initiative prioritized five areas of investment, which are what is listed here.
 We're including about $5 million of investment in property ownership and redevelopment together with business ownership and growth that really touch upon the wealth creation goals that Kimberly showed at the beginning of the presentation, and that's over the next fiscal year.
 We also are introducing a new middle-income housing opportunity investment, which complements the district's sizable set-aside. We're anticipating an allocation of $2.4 million next fiscal year towards that program, which would expand the Housing Bureau's home ownership and home repair programs to a broader community, so kind of a broader set of income levels that is currently available via the Housing Bureau. Thank you.
 And finally, what you'll see in the budget is we are anticipating investment in the Alberta Commons project that you'll see in the next fiscal year, and that is going to help make tenant improvements and provide affordable commercial space to local, small, minority-owned businesses as part of the Natural Grocers Project. Thank you.
 Can you hold this slide for a second? Sure. So the last time we had a hearing on this, we heard from a number of community members, including representatives of homeownership nonprofits. They thought we should put more money into homeownership and change the mix. And when the mayor prepared his budget, I started – it was difficult to figure out where this issue gets resolved.
 And so what have we done in light of that testimony and in terms of changing the mix? Well, let me see if Kurt's still here. I think Kurt might be able to speak to it from the affordable housing standpoint. Kurt, you know what I'm referring to? Yeah, absolutely. Actually, we have a one-on-one briefing with you, I think, in a week to specifically talk about the flow of funds.
 It's interesting that when the Housing Bureau did its NOFA for this spring, we made available not just a site for homeownership at 5020 North Interstate, which was purchased with TIF, but also capital dollars for that site and additional homeownership resources. And it's, I think, important to mention that
 Not all the resources were applied for. We did, with the mayor's decision, identify Proud Ground as the entity for which we are giving an exclusive right to negotiate for the development of the 5020 North Interstate site. And we have allocated funds to Habitat for Humanity for homeownership, but there's actually still money available. Thank you.
 So what we've prepared is a summary sheet of all the resources that we have put forward, both directly and indirectly, including mortgage credit certificates, a program you will recall that we administer in the region, and down payment assistance. So I have a much more robust spreadsheet that describes that to you, and I would be happy to share it with the full council. You know, maybe it's just me, but...
 These things are hard. It's very hard to hear off these new mics. And it's an echo in a chamber, and we're going to have to revisit the technology. Kurt, without going into any more details, and thank you for that summary, based on the testimony that we heard at that hearing, have we modified the split, the amount of resources we're allocating to affordable homeownership, or are we retaining the amount?
 the committee recommended. The advocates asked for 50% of the TIF lift, and we've not abided that request. What we have done is we've identified the entire flow of funds, which actually gets us significantly in that direction because I think they were specifically looking at down payment assistance without looking at the other kinds of resources like mortgage credit certificates. And so I look forward to the briefing. I guess...
 I generally am biased towards investing in affordable housing for people shut out of the market. We heard from a number of people, including community members, they wanted to see low-barrier homeownership in that district. So I'll look forward to seeing the plan you have for meeting the apparent demand. I would like to say parenthetically that down payment assistance works –
 if you have product in the pipeline under $400,000. And the challenge in the Northeast Corridor, especially Albina proper, is the dearth of product. So we actually have qualified homebuyers who,
 who have been granted down payment assistance and they cannot physically find the units. So we are shifting more to the direct provision of hard units to then couple up with the down payment assistance. Thank you. Thank you.
 So we'll next move to Gateway. The Gateway URA is actually set to expire in June 2022, and we, similar to the North Northeast area, have an action plan of priorities identified by the community in 2016, which focuses on creating a vibrant mixed-use regional center through investment in three key geographies. One is the Halsey-Weidler Couplet, which they prioritized above all. The transit center, and then in what...
 is called Central Gateway. The majority of PDC's investment in the area, based on community feedback, is focused along the Halsey-Weidler Business District, and we're administering those funds through our loan and grant products. So as you look at the budget, you'll see it in our commercial property redevelopment loan, our business lending, and our grant products. And those are all targeted at really helping with small business development along Halsey-Weidler.
 A significant kind of set-aside of our loan resources of approximately $4.7 million is focused on partnering with the Housing Bureau and Human Solutions to realize a new mixed-use, mixed-income housing project at 106th and Halsey. And we're particularly looking at an investment in new space to provide for small businesses or retailers at that location.
 Finally, we're working closely with PBOT on joint street improvement investments to support and complement the small business investments that PDC is making. And we're excited that in the next couple of months, a national entity called People for Bikes is actually going out to Gateway to tour both the infrastructure improvements as well as the business development activities that we've been undertaking. So moving next to Lentz.
 Lent's more like Old Town Chinatown is actually kind of midway to the back end of an action plan that helps guide our investments. And the most sizable action plan investments currently of approximately $19 million is towards the completion of the four Lent's Town Center projects of Oliver Station, 9101, Asian Health Services, and the Woody Guthrie Project. And you'll see that investment reflected in our commercial property lending line item.
 In addition, our activities are focused on business development and growth, particularly at the town center as we bring on new commercial space in the ground floor of the housing projects. And then also along southeast Foster, we have approximately $2 million in business lending and prosperity investment program grants. And finally, I'd also call attention to we have $1.9 million, which we're investing in leach botanical gardens, and that matches another $5 million from the Parks Bureau. Next slide, please.
 So moving into the central city,
 Our investments in downtown Waterfront are almost exclusively focused on Old Town Chinatown. It has an action plan that was approved by council in 2014. And the majority of our investments are anticipated to support historic and seismic renovation of the historic buildings in that area, as well as to provide replacement parking to both the historic buildings and new development that the district has long aspired towards as the district sees its surface lots redeveloped.
 We have available about $14 million in next fiscal year and $27 million over five years for that historic preservation district parking that's related both to the preservation as well as new private development.
 And finally, I would just showcase kind of in the lower left in terms of pictures. We have about $400,000 annually that we administer through our business finance items and our grant products that focus on entrepreneurship and business support in the district. And that's resulted in projects like the preservation and tenanting of the Overlook building with a local company named Movel. Moving to River District. River District.
 The River District budget is sizable, and you'll see it's kind of well allocated between different outcome goals, but it's predominantly allocated to three major project activities. First, the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan actually overlaps between Downtown Waterfront and River District.
 And so our commitment in Old Town Chinatown spans both of those urban renewal areas. And so our focus similarly of our investments is to focus on historic and cultural preservation, spurring new private investment and development, and encouraging business growth within the neighborhood. Thank you.
 Second, we have approximately a million dollars dedicated to the Broadway corridor area or the post office kind of location over the next year. And this really covers two major activities. It covers work to get the master plan underway for the Broadway corridor and the post office site.
 as well as completing a feasibility analysis that we've been conducting for the past couple of years for Union Station. And that investment for Union Station is approximately $800,000 of the million, and it's part of a five-year federal grant that we're providing a match for. And the goal of that by the end of this calendar year is to have identified kind of major track and building improvements to allow the station to continue for another 100 years. Thank you.
 And then I would note, as you look at our budget and you do look at the future fiscal years, you'll see the major reinvestments of infrastructure resources into the Broadway corridor area happening within the next five fiscal years.
 And lastly, we have approximately $10 million allocated for Centennial Mills in this current fiscal year, and we do anticipate, based on council action, that we will have about $5 to $6 million of that remaining to administer into redevelopment of that site into next fiscal year. So we do anticipate some of that will roll over.
 Can I ask a question of you, Tom, as the chair? We've been all at one time or another pitched on the idea of using Veterans Memorial Coliseum as a rail station, if there were ever to be high-speed rail linking the West Coast.
 I'm struck by the fact that Amtrak has to cross the steel bridge and come into Union Station, which begs the question, is Union Station the right place for a train station? And if you were king for a day and money wasn't an object, would you renovate Union Station for some other purpose like they did in Denver and move our rail capacity across the river? Sure.
 Since I hadn't put any thought into that at all until you asked me the question, I would say off the cuff, yes. I think that might be a better use if I were to do it.
 I think, you know, having done a Randy Miller trip to Denver and seeing how they renovated their Union Station as a hub for many things, but then they moved the rail and bus somewhere else, and we're looking at a feasibility for the station, and we're also looking about maybe relocating the bus station. It seems like...
 Is that, Kimberly, is that part of the bigger thinking about whether it is the right location? It is. The grant work that Lisa and her team are leading is really going to come at a good time for the rest of the work that we're doing with Broadway Corridor. So we'll have a sense of order of magnitude in order to get it to a place where you could actually have a more active use. Right now there are estimates of almost $100 million in grants.
 So we really need to get that number and have additional clarity in order to be able to dream, to have aspirations such as the one you're talking about. I love having the rail at Union Station. I would not like it to go on the other side. I was, Commissioner, I thought if we were going to spend $100 million, I'd rather spend it at Veterans Memorial Coliseum, upgrade and save the building, and use the ground floor for rail if that was in the cars. So...
 The one caveat I'll add to that is the $100 million looks at just the rail at Union Station. It doesn't look at all of the infrastructure investment that would need to happen to relocate all of both kind of Amtrak's facilities as well as PTRR's facilities over to the east side. So it certainly would be a vision. It would be a sizable investment. But, you know, if we ever, the mayor in his State of the City address talked about,
 Dr. Toulon's vision of burying I-5. I mean, if you're going to bury I-5, why couldn't you bury the – I mean, if you're going to spend – if money is no object, why wouldn't you bury the trains as well on the west side? Can't think of why not. Oh, boy. So we're going to move to the east side for a moment.
 So moving to the Central Eastside, we continue to prioritize our investments in the Central Eastside Industrial District towards growing accessible jobs and preserving and supporting affordable industrial options. And these investments are really reflected in three budget line items. First, we have a strategic sites line item of about $1.5 million that is targeted towards sites like the ODOT blocks or other properties along the Milwaukee light rail alignment.
 Second, we have about $1 million annually via our business and commercial property lending programs, where we see a lot of activity in this particular urban renewal area with businesses growing. And finally, we have about $450,000 annually via our prosperity investment program, which has supported companies like Salt and Straw, who's developing their new facility in the central east side, together with PDC's larger e-zone investment.
 So coming back kind of to the other side of the innovation quadrant, looking at North McAdam. As Kimberly mentioned, our anticipated investments in North McAdam, both over the next fiscal year but over the next five fiscal years, are heavily invested towards infrastructure investments.
 Our investments focus both in South Waterfront as well as the Portland State University area. Our major investment for 17-18 that is underway is about $1.2 million for bond, which has also come before council, and that's part of a larger about $5 million investment by PDC for the extension of Southwest Bond in conjunction with OHSU's growth, and that complements the Transportation Bureau's SDC investment.
 The majority of the non-set-aside investments that are currently committed via ZERZ and PSU development agreements, we would caveat that we anticipate that both of those development agreements will come under amendment over the next six months to a year, and that will likely change the timing of their projects and the generation of tax increment, and thus change the timing of PDC's investment.
 And lastly, as we speak about PSU's development agreement, PDC's contribution of land value, you'll see in both the South Park blocks and the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area, and that's the contribution to the joint PSU, Oregon Health Science University, Portland Community College, and the City Project at 4th and Montgomery.
 Our contribution in the Lloyd Center is predominantly for the next fiscal year, this fiscal year into next fiscal year in the Convention Center Hotel via an investment in the garage to support the hotel. Again, that's actually currently in this fiscal year, but we do anticipate it rolling over based on the hotel timing. Good news is we've heard groundbreaking for the hotel is anticipated in late summer of this year.
 Development of the hotel was one of the main objectives of the urban renewal area, so it's great to kind of see it come to fruition at the end of the life of this district, and it will bring tremendous economic activity to the city and the region.
 What you do see in kind of as we look forward and the garage gets completed is TriMet's contribution, which is anticipated to occur in 17-18, comes back into the district and comes available again for redistribution, whether that's at Northeast Broadway or in the Rose Quarter. And that's reflected in what we're calling the project development line item so that it leaves flexibility for the community to weigh in on how we spend those resources. Okay.
 Is PDC going to keep the parking garage? Yes. And then finally, just to note, because it was an active conversation over the past year with the Transportation Bureau, we have a contribution of about $2 million in some of our forecast years as matching funds to the Transportation Bureau's Sullivan's Crossing Bridge project. Is there any impact on...
 With regard to the proposed transportation budget in Salem, is this contingent upon any of that or is this separate from that? This is separate. And so I would assume that's a leveraging impact if that goes forth. Okay, pretty good. Thank you.
 So finally, going to the six Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative districts. Five years in, we're truly pleased to see significant momentum within each district and some identification of major projects. So, for example, the Cully Boulevard Alliance is investing $211,000 into Living Cully Plaza. The Jade District has earmarked approximately $200,000 for the Roots to Rise Cultural Center.
 And R42nd has also acquired property for tenanting by local diverse businesses with a mixture of tax increment revenue and the community opportunity fund. So now a look to the future. Thank you.
 So in just a few minutes, we will be headed over to our board and presenting a new communication and engagement strategy that's really designed to align our words and actions more closely with the agency's strategic direction. Working with consultants who gathered information from stakeholders, partners, and the general public, we've developed a strategy that helps distill the strategic plan into an easier-to-digest framework. Okay.
 that of building an equitable economy. That means growing family wage jobs, advancing opportunities for prosperity, collaborating with partners for an equitable city, and creating vibrant neighborhoods and communities. And because we are committed to doing this work and continuing to fundamentally change as an organization, I'm excited to share that we are going to be
 Yep, prosper Portland, building an equitable economy. Dun, dun, dun, the grand reveal. So to prosper means to flourish, to succeed, to thrive, and to do well. We really want Portland to prosper, especially communities of color and those that have been historically underserved. Thank you.
 The new logo represents a keystone, so you have five keystones, which is a key part of the bridge between the public and the private sector, between different communities. There are five keystones representing the five quadrants, and it also happens to align nicely with the five portions of our strategic plan. So we look forward to living into this new era and are happy to take any questions that you might have. Very good. Questions for Director Branham?
 Just a couple, please. I think you have to be somewhere. You mentioned, so we should be brief. First of all, the mayor has proposed a budget note and funding which would give the film and video office a one-year reprieve with one-time general fund money. Yes.
 and he's directing the city budget office to work with PDC to consider alternatives. Yes. And as the arts liaison, I will be engaged in that and have some thoughts. Great. And looking also to you to think about where is the synergy? Where is the best fit? Okay.
 and what are options for a more sustainable funding stream. Okay. But I appreciate that the mayor took that off the chop block for this year, and with two of our major productions leaving Portland, this is a year we want to be showcasing that concierge service as we hope to land a successor to Grimm and a successor to Portlandia. Absolutely. We've been getting a lot of testimony recently, Kimberly, about some mixed-use development in Gateway. Mm-hmm.
 with education partners and housing. Is that still high concept, or do you have anything to update us on? I'll turn to Lisa, but I believe that we're at the master planning phase. This is the Ted Gilbert project. Yes.
 We have been having active conversations around the same. What our understanding is, having kind of looked at that area for a while, is some of the zoning and some of the street plan doesn't necessarily encourage development because it aspired to higher density development than the market expected.
 will bear. And so the early work that we're doing is we've convened all of the Bureau partners to assess kind of what works and what doesn't work in code and regulation today to encourage development and holding ongoing conversations with the property owners who are interested in developing.
 Gateway has a really limited budget. So as we look at 106th and Halsey, as well as future opportunities, just making sure that we're balancing our investments between those two. Okay. So at this point you're looking at creating the platform for having the discussion. The final question I have, Kimberly, is for you. I've served under four mayors, and each mayor came in with a lot of enthusiasm about crafting a vision for the Rose Quarter.
 and at some point we'll have a whole storage area filled with Rose Quarter visions. And partly, I've learned, is that we have to be careful about not trying to get ahead of the market. At some point, the market is going to tell us that the Rose Quarter is viable. But it's hard to jumpstart that. And we're seeing in other parts of the city where the market ignited development. And so I guess the question I have, particularly with –
 the expenditure of the monies we've budgeted in this URA. At some point, should we rethink how we approach the Rose Quarter, including rethink the legal structure that we impose in hopes over a 20-year period to actually develop and implement a vision? Sure.
 So I guess I would answer that by starting with what I think was a really strong public process that was led to create the Northeast Quadrant as part of the Central City 2035 plan and established, I think, a shared framework for that area. If ODOT is successful in securing resources to help deliver on some of that with the alignment plan,
 In that area, I think we will send signals to the market that it is a better time to invest. So I don't know that they're mutually exclusive, but I agree with you that I'm not sure the time is ripe today, particularly with competing areas like the Central East Side, South Waterfront, and even the Broadway Corridor.
 And just as an aside, I mean, I've had developers suggest that because it's a unique part of the city, what we need is like a battery park authority, or we need a different kind of legal structure with a role for PDC. And I don't know the answer to it other than, you know, it is a unique entertainment district, and I'm not sure anyone's really figured out how to activate it, and yet we've got the pieces. And I hope over time you come to us with ideas for how to do that. Yeah.
 Yeah, we're looking forward to engage in that conversation. Thank you. Any further questions for this panel? Thank you. Excellent presentation, very thorough and obviously well received. And Director Branham and Chair Kelly, I want to applaud you. Chair Kelly, this may be your last time. I don't know. Maybe we'll have you back.
 But I want to thank you for your leadership. You've done a phenomenal job. I would even argue that it was a transformative period over which you were the chair of the PDC Commission.
 and you not only have led some of the work that's brought us to the conversation we had today, you were obviously instrumental in helping us transition leadership in the Portland Development Commission to Director Branham. Director Branham, I want to applaud you for pushing very hard.
 very publicly and very consistently for equity. And this new rebranding of the agency is really the last step that you have taken towards an agency transformation where all of the agency is focused on answering the question that you have put out at every public meeting I've been to where you've said – you've raised the question, who benefits?
 And now you have an agency to ensure that all Portlanders who are impacted by growth have the opportunity to participate in the benefits of that growth. So I applaud you and wish you well. So at this point, the meeting of the PDC Budget Committee is continued until tomorrow, Wednesday, May 11th, at 6 p.m. here in the Portland City Council Chambers in Portland City Hall.
 where we will hear public testimony on the budget. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. We are now reconvened again as the Portland, and we have a hearing. So let me get my right. It's recessed the first time, so we're good. 84, 84. Give me the roll call.
 I feel like we should have different outfits for each, you know, role we're playing. Missed off. I'll get you over there. Thank God this is on the schedule for the two of us. I lost it. Where did I put it? Here it is. Okay. Okay.
 All right, good afternoon, everyone. We'll start off with legal counsel making an announcement about today's hearing. So first we're going to let Carla read the item. Ah, very good. Let's wait until she gets back to her desk. I could, but it would be a lot. No, we'll wait. There's not much we can do until she gets the PowerPoint working anyway. This is why her job is secure. She's the only one who can make that thing work.
 You didn't miss anything. It's just the part where we try to get the PowerPoint to work. Oh, great. Awesome. Thank you. So, Carla, if you could read the item, please, 480. Okay.
 Item 480, appeal of TMT Development Company, Inc. against the Portland Design Commission's design review decision of approval with conditions in the west end sub-area of the downtown sub-district of Central City Plan District at 901 through 919 Southwest Taylor Street, LU16265061DZM.
 All right, thank you. And now we can get to the attorney giving us some procedural information. All right. All right.
 This is an on-the-record hearing today. This means you must limit your testimony to materials and issues in the record. We'll begin with a staff report by Bureau of Development Services for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, the City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and have 10 minutes to present their case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next, and each person will have three minutes to speak to Council.
 Following that, the principal opponent will address counsel and rebut appellant's presentation. If there is no principal opponent, counsel will move directly to testimony from persons who oppose the appeal.
 After a principal opponent, council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal, and each will have three minutes. Finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents to the appeal. Council may then close the hearing, deliberate, and take a vote on the appeal. If it is a tentative vote, council will set a future date for adoption of findings and a final vote. If council takes a final vote today, that concludes the matter before council.
 There are several guidelines for those who will be addressing counsel today. First, the evidentiary record is closed. Again, it's on the record. The hearing is to decide only if the body below made the correct decision based on the evidence that was presented. This means you must limit your remarks to arguments based on the record compiled below. You may refer to evidence that was previously submitted. You may not submit new evidence today that was not submitted before.
 If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted and reminded that you must limit your testimony to the record. The council will not consider the new information, and it will be rejected in the city council's final decision. Second, if you believe a person who addresses council today improperly presents new evidence or presents a legal argument relying on evidence not in the record, you may object to that argument. Second.
 Finally, under state law, only issues that were raised below may be raised in this appeal to city council. If you believe another person has raised issues today that were not raised below at the design commission, you may object to the council's consideration of that issue. Thank you.
 Additionally, if the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow the Council to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. And that concludes my remarks. Very good. Do any members of the Council wish to declare a conflict of interest? No.
 I'd like to declare a potential conflict of interest. I have taken campaign contributions in the past from TMT Development. I don't know if that qualifies, but I'd like clarity on that. It's not qualifying.
 potential conflict of interest is an action that you could take in your official capacity that could or would be to your personal benefit. I don't think a past campaign contribution would fall into that. And I think there may be some exemptions. I'm sorry, I'm a little bit on the spot without my ethics code in front of me, but there may be some exemptions. Feel free to excuse me at any time if you think it's warranted. I think you're on the hook. I think you're on the hook.
 Okay, I think you have to participate. Any other commissioners? Can I just comment on that? That's the first time anybody in my recollection when I've been on the council has stated that, and I think it's a nice piece of clarity and transparency whether it's a conflict of interest or not. I appreciate you saying so. Very good. I think it's a disclosure. I think we should be careful not to use conflict of interest in an all-too-generic way. I appreciate the mayor disclosing it. It doesn't constitute, in my judgment, a conflict of interest.
 And there's nothing that precludes us, I think the council will tell us, from over-disclosing. But that does not establish that he has a personal financial interest in the outcome. Very good. Unfortunately, it sounds like I don't get...
 Excuse from this afternoon's hearing. It was a good try on my part. Might have worked for jury duty, Mayor, but it's not going to work here. There you go. So no members of the council have an actual conflict of interest. Do any of the members of the city council have ex parte contacts to declare or information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose? Yes.
 Mayor, I don't have any ex parte on this, but I do walk by the building all the time on my way to work. So technically I'm aware of the site. Very good. Would you agree, city attorney, that that does not constitute an ex parte contact? It actually does constitute an ex parte contact, but you just disclosed it on the record. So if people on a regular basis are familiar with the site, then yes, you would just say that on the record. Interesting. Okay.
 I am also familiar with the site. Very good. Well, Mayor, in fact, sometimes members of the public that come to these proceedings are surprised that we are so quick to profess complete ignorance about the underlying issue as a way of staying on the side of not having an ex parte contact. So like we're not allowed to take trips to the sites and inspect without disclosing it. This is a hard-to-miss building. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, good. I was just going to say that no doubt I have walked past this multiple times and I cannot remember having taken any particular note. Very good. No offense. No offense. Okay, so this is more interesting than I thought it would be. I sold this short right off the bat. Does anyone present in the council chambers wish to ask either Commissioners Fish or myself or any others about ex parte contacts or information that has been disclosed? Seeing none.
 Have any members of the Council made any visits to the site involved in this matter? And I think some of us have already said we've walked by it. Does anybody here want to ask us about that? Doesn't look like it. Do the Council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin the formal hearing? Seeing none, we'll now start with the staff report. And as legal counsel indicated, that's approximately 10 minutes.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Thanks for having us. I'm Tanya Paglia from BDS. And I'm Hillary Adam, BDS, as an assistant. Okay, so we're up. Okay, so this is an appeal of the Design Commission decision for the studio building and the Guild Theater located on Southwest Taylor Street. The presentation will have five parts, context, proposal, process, decision, and appeal.
 So the first part is about context. The studio building and Guild Theater together occupy approximately one quarter block and are located in the west end sub area of the downtown sub district in the central city plan. Because the site lies within these districts, the approval criteria for design review are the central city fundamental design guidelines. Okay.
 The studio building and connected Guild Theater are located along the South Park blocks and face onto Director Park. The site is in a highly trafficked and visible location, a block from the Central Library and close to Pioneer Courthouse Square, the Cultural District, and the MAX. The buildings are located on a 10,000 square foot site with frontages on Southwest Taylor and also Southwest 9th to the east.
 And this view is from the east, looking west across Southwest 9th. It shows the studio building, which is identified by the red arrow. And to its right is the Guild Theater. The two connected buildings were built in 1927 by the Ellison White Conservatory, an institution for the study of music and dramatic art.
 They were designed by architect Luther Lee Dugan, and they feature three-dimensional busts of Chopin, Bach, Schubert, Mozart, and panels with composers' names. The buildings are listed on the City of Portland's Historic Resource Inventory, the HRI, but are not listed on the National Historic Register. This view is from the south, looking north along Southwest 9th, just to give you more context.
 The studio building is a nine-story building. As you can see with a mansard roof, the adjacent Guild Theater is a two-story building. And they're interconnected at the ground floor. And another view of the site. This view is from the northeast looking southwest across Director Park. As you can see, this is a busy pedestrian area at the heart of the city. And another context slide. This is a view from the east looking west along Southwest Taylor with Director Park on the right.
 The site is zoned CXD Central Commercial with design overlay. And moving from context to the proposal itself, the proposal had three main elements. The first was to replace windows on the studio building. The second was for storefront alterations to the Guild Theater. And the third was to replace rooftop mechanical and not provide the required screening.
 and there was a modification request to not provide the screening as part of the review. So the rest of the presentation is only going to focus on the replacement window as part of the project, as the other two are not in any kind of contest. So the proposal, the applicant requested design review for replacement of 192 of the studio building's existing steel windows, proposing to replace them with aluminum windows.
 And for the process, there were two design review hearings. And before that, there was a pre-application conference. At the pre-application conference, the applicants got some feedback from staff that these are significant buildings for the city's architectural and cultural fabric. And staff highly recommended pursuing information about possibly listing the buildings. Then on to the design review, that was January 19, 2017.
 Staff had come in with a recommendation of approval. The commission rejected the staff report, and they were unanimous that the guidelines C3, respect architectural integrity, and A6, reuse, rehabilitate, and restore buildings, were not met by the proposal. The commission commented that this is a very important historical building for the city and noted that it is one of the biggest buildings in the city with original steel windows.
 and that the existing steel windows are a character defining feature of the studio building. They were concerned that the applicant had not thoroughly explored retention of the existing windows or explored replacement with more similar windows. Beyond the change in material from steel to aluminum, the profile of the proposed replacement window differed a great deal from the original windows. The Commission noted that the architectural integrity and significance of the existing buildings
 which would qualify them for the National Register of Historic Places, could be at stake. The Commission thus encouraged the applicant to explore the financial benefits of listing both buildings. The Commission advised that the financial benefits of listing the buildings could offset the cost of rehabilitation of the existing windows. The Commission asked the applicant to return for a second hearing and to bring in-depth information on alternatives to aluminum replacement windows.
 to include restoration of existing steel windows and or rather replacement with steel replica windows. Overall, the Commission requested that the applicant bring enough information to show that due diligence had been performed. And then the hearing was continued to March 2nd. At that hearing, per the request of the Commission, the applicant submitted all the information requested about other replacement window options.
 The information for replacement windows included three models of steel replica windows and three models of aluminum windows. And of these, the applicant had a preferred option, which was an aluminum window from the WinCo 3250 series. And that window had a better matching profile than the window that had been brought to the previous hearing. The staff report recommended approval with conditions intended to avoid a denial.
 But they were also intended to uphold the commission's direction that retention of steel windows, a character-defining feature of the building, would help meet guidelines. So staff wrote a condition of approval requiring the original windows to be restored with the understanding that the commission could opt to strike the condition and include their own new condition. Could I ask a question here, please? Sure. And your time obviously gets extended for any time, and this is true for everybody. Your time, we stop the clock for questions. Sure.
 I just want to make sure I understand what happened on March 2nd. Sure. On March 2nd, a set of windows that was aluminum came before the Design Review Commission, and the Design Review Commission agreed.
 agreed that those aluminum windows were acceptable and met the conditions? There's a little nuance. I mean, they had an aluminum window the first time, and then the second hearing, March 2nd, they did have an aluminum window, but they also presented other options because they had been asked to present other options. However, they had a preferred option. So in essence, they were just presenting that one aluminum window. So when you say the decision was approval with conditions, what did they approve? Yes.
 So, oh yeah, I was going to get to that in the next slide. But no, happy to get onto that slide now and not go into too much detail here. So the decision, yes. So we had recommended an approval of retention of the steel windows, but the commission did not approve
 they struck that condition and they added their own conditions. So the conditions you're seeing here, they were added by the commission to address the guidelines that we've listed, A6, C2, C3, and C5. And the conditions D and E were the new conditions. Of those, the two sub-bullets, the two last sub-bullets of D are the bullets under contention today.
 if that makes sense. No, I'm slow, and I've had a long day. So can you say this in idiot speak so I absolutely understand what the point of contention is? Sure. So based on everything they saw and everything that the commission wanted, they were able to come up with an approval, but in order to have an approval, they needed the windows to be more in line with existing. And so to achieve that, they added these conditions. Okay.
 The two in bold. The two in bold. So glazing. And I'm sorry for so much text. That's all right. So the glazing has to have a greater clarity. What does that mean?
 For those of us who are not window experts. So things got very stressful at the end of that hearing. I can see why. They wanted the applicant to come back with a glass sample of greater clarity that they could just approve, but the applicant really wanted an up or down vote at that hearing. So they didn't want to wait two weeks to come back with a glass sample. So in order to get them out the door with an approval, everyone scrambled with their cell phones to try to find a
 a metric to give to state we need higher clarity. It's a hard thing to define without being prepared to do that ahead of time. So in the end, basically what they wanted to say was they wanted greater clarity than what was presented, but...
 of a tint that would allow them to meet their energy code. So you're trying to give them the way that this condition is written. It's a little early, early, but it's... So these are tinted windows and they were too dark? Yes, exactly. Got it. Thank you. And definitely we'll get into that a little bit later. But the traditional old building has perfectly clear windows because they didn't have tinting. And so we wanted a clearer window.
 So that's how that condition got added on. And then the other thing was to add the muntins and the spacer bars to create a better simulation of a divided light window, which is a condition that happens throughout all our cases with older buildings.
 So, just wanted to say that they reached an agreement, they reached an approval. Could you just tell me what a muntin is, please? Oh, sorry? What's a muntin? A muntin is the piece of wood or other material that's between the panes of glass to create those divided lights. So it's like a lattice? Yes. And I'm going to show you guys. I think it's my next slide. No, it's not. But I can cut over to that slide if it helps. Okay.
 But just one last thing about the decision, that it was for approval, but we did have some dissenting commissioners, and they felt that guidelines C3 and A6 were not met. So we had a split decision. But four out of six did vote in favor. Can I ask you a question? Sure. I remember we had a discussion in a similar proceeding about a building within walking distance of this building where the issue was windows. And one of the...
 One of the questions that came up was cost, and another question that came up was the availability of having them manufactured somewhere. Are either of those issues that have been raised in this proceeding relevant to our decision? Those issues were raised during the discussion of both hearings, hearings one and two. They're not approval criteria, so they're always raised in a kind of sideways way. Right. But they were factored in the process.
 The commissioners asked the applicants to come back from hearing one to hearing two with all of that type of information. Even though we're not supposed to count it, they asked it to be provided to show that...
 how you could compare these different products. Right. And I guess for my purposes, if cost became so prohibitive you couldn't do it, or if you were unable to find someone who could fabricate, I would view that as relevant. Is there a claim here that the cost is either prohibitive or there's not a manufacturer that could manufacture the windows?
 In terms of contesting these bullets or in terms of... These two bullets. These two bullets, no. One of the applicants during the course of the hearing said that the spacer bar mutton issue was not a financial concern. That's important. Not sure about the glazing. Nobody made any statements either way about the glazing, whether there was a financial concern. I think that might be a factor or it might just be the way it was written.
 Well, I just, I mean, if someone said that there's no way I can have someone manufacture this window, so as a practical matter I can't comply, that would be of interest. And as we had in a case years ago, someone talking about cost and practicality, I mean, that would be in the record. But you're saying, at least for purposes of our discussion now, those have not been raised as issues? Yes.
 I mean, I'm sure that it adds cost. I'm certain it would add cost. I'm not sure about the glass, but the mutton would. But one of the discussion items happened yesterday
 to come across the fact that the applicant said it wasn't a huge cost, it wasn't the main reason they decided not to do it. They had other reasons they decided not to do it. Okay, thank you. Those decisions weren't based on cost, specifically. So it was a split vote, four saying they'd like to see lighter and two saying they'd like to see darker? Well, interesting. The two who dissented didn't want to see an aluminum window at all. So the aluminum window was a very heavy compromise for the commission. They would have liked to see...
 restoration of the steel windows, the character-defining feature of the building, or maybe possibly a steel replica. And then the majority supported what? The majority did end up accepting the aluminum window because with discussions with the applicant, they could see that that's what the applicant would be willing to do. Okay, so the majority accepted the proposal. Then how did it get here? What happened then? In accepting it,
 to get these undesirable, from their perspective, undesirable aluminum windows up to snuff, to the high bar that this building...
 its importance in the city gives they said at least has to have these other elements um if we're going to if we're going to accept an aluminum window got it you know if we're going to have a window it has to be like the best best case scenario for that aluminum window so that that's kind of how that that ended up in there okay i i do have one question so on the all new windows she'll feature simulated divided lights with both spacer bars and interior muttons
 The option they presented just had exterior muttons. Is that correct? Yes. Yes. And I'm going to show you guys how that looks, an example of how it looks, not their exact window, in one of my future slides. Okay. If that would help.
 Should I? Or do you have something to say? Okay. Okay. So I will go to the next slide. This is just a quickie. We added a condition about the lot line windows. This is not contested. I just wanted you to see there was that condition in there if you had a question about it. Those windows are no longer allowed by building code as they're on the lot line. So in order to preserve them, they have to do a building code appeal. So it's just an extra precaution to protect the windows was added as a condition of approval.
 So I didn't want to confuse you by adding that slide, but I just figured you might have questions about it down the road. So now I'm going to just show you guys a little bit about the divided lights, just to get us on the same page in terms of what we're actually talking about. So the top left is a true divided light. That's what you saw in historical buildings when only smaller panes of glass were available. Okay.
 And so that's the historic condition of most old windows. The top middle is that one that we were hoping to have with our condition of approval. It's the simulated divided light with interior and exterior muttons and spacer bars. And then the one to the right from there, the top right, is also a simulated divided light with no spacer bar but interior and exterior muttons.
 And the bottom left is just exterior mutton. And then the one on the bottom right is a highly residential application. You wouldn't probably ever see one of those coming through one of our cases. And then I just wanted to narrow it down. These are the two really in question here. The one on the left is what the applicant proposes and prefers. And the one on the right is what is required with our conditions. So just to give you a real visual of what the difference is.
 This is a wood window. Theirs is aluminum. So it's not exactly what the difference is, but it's representative. So I want to be clear I understand because in these two pictures, the one on the left doesn't have the same degree of beveling on the, I don't know if those are muntins or separators. Those are the buttons, yeah. So is that a true difference in terms of the two? No.
 That wasn't meant to be part of the story. So that's not part of the story. Yeah, that's unfortunate that they weren't just the same. Exterior only versus exterior and interior is the debate. Right. If this had been a better example, the one on the left would have had the same exterior. Okay, and so is there a difference if I'm standing outside and I'm looking up at the building? Do I see any difference? No.
 We would say that you do, and the commission felt that you would. These windows do open, and now that it's getting to be nicer weather, somebody walked by and told me they happened to see a bunch of windows were open today. So you'll see certainly the interior of open windows, but even the closed windows you would likely... I think just the whole shadow line and all of the sort of completeness of the window system looks different when you have this complete package. Okay.
 I have a question. So I understand this property is on our historic inventory. Yes. But that doesn't, I mean, if the developers wanted to, they could tear it down, couldn't they? Yes. Okay. That would have to go through design review, right? No. They would have to go through a 120-day demolition delay before they could do that. Yeah. But that's been happening all over the city? Yes. Okay. Yes, definitely. Okay.
 This is definitely preferred to that. So this is just a quickie to say that originally staff saw the proposal on the left and this is all techie, but the circled area is the
 exterior, interior, mutton, spacer bar. So their first round of hearing one had that. The second hearing didn't have it. So we originally, when we wrote our approval, had seen the one on the left that had all three of those pieces. But I think actually the applicant didn't mean to submit those, but they came to us that way. So we took them at their face value that they were proposing that. But by the time of the second hearing, they were no longer proposing that.
 And this is just to give just some perspective because across all our different cases, big houses, small houses, big buildings, condos, school buildings like the Lincoln Center at PCU, this is just a common...
 a common thing staff asks for, it doesn't usually come down to a condition of approval. Usually sometime in the process of working with the applicant on their proposal, if they haven't already proposed a spacer bar and muttons, by the time it gets to a decision, they've usually added them. So I just wanted to show you all the, this is just a sample of the many buildings that have had this type of replacement window.
 And just quickly about the glass clarity, it was confusing. They came in with that sample that you can see that sort of the numerical values there. And...
 It would have been easier to compare it with another glass sample to make the final decision, but that wasn't possible. So they took this one and they said, let's just say another one that's clear and condition around that. So that's how that condition came to be. On the right, you can see how some of the buildings with replacement windows look shiny and green. Glass clarity is...
 part of a traditional historic building. So that was important for the commission and they wanted to find a way to write a condition for that. So the appeal statement, I'll just leave it up for you guys to look at it. There's four different elements of it. It's also in the proposal or in the notice, I think. Or is it better if I read it? I'll just let you guys read it.
 So just to summarize in looking at this, there is a claim of cost. There's a claim of procedural error. There's a claim of, I guess, cost-benefit. That's what the 4% is. And then I guess the issue that just I could use some clarification on is that the difference between the exterior and interior of the building for purposes of the scope of the design commission's review. Does that make a – is that a –
 legally significant difference. I can address that. And I'll go into our responses while you do that. I mean, the windows are an element of the exterior envelope of the building. And it is standard practice that we, if not, if interior muntins and spacer bars are not already proposed,
 For buildings of this caliber, we would suggest that the applicant provide that. And if they didn't, it's a fairly common condition on historic buildings. We don't see too many of these.
 through design review, but there have been a few. In the picture in the top right of this slide where it shows the windows opening out, is that representative of how these windows open? Correct. That's that window. That explains why you said earlier that when the windows are open, because sometimes we think of windows opening being you slide them up, these actually open out so that, in fact, windows,
 From the sidewalk, you can see both the interior and the exterior of that window. Correct. Thank you. That's helpful. This slide here is just showing our responses to those different points. I could try to summarize it. I guess I'm— You can read those.
 I don't want to read you guys to death here. So basically, the commission believed that the guidelines would not be met with other conditions. That was response to one of their issues. And that they did feel that the interior, exterior muttons and spacer bars were a standard expectation for the replacement of a divided light window.
 and to maintain the character of the building. The applicant stated that during the hearing that adding muttons and spacer bars would not be a great expense for the project. And I'm sure they'll speak to that when they come up. That was just something they said. They said their reasoning was because they thought no one was really going to see it from the ground. So they were more motivated by why bother, you know, than money. So that's why we didn't feel too worried about adding the condition.
 because it wasn't a cost factor per se. The second response is that the commission rejected the entire window sample at the first hearing. So with the procedural question about this didn't come up at the first hearing...
 Well, at the first hearing, the commission said absolutely no to the entire window, which included the glazing. They didn't focus on the glazing because they just were so dissatisfied with the entire window that was being proposed. Glazing was only a part of that window. And they just, yeah, they had so much to discuss that that didn't become a discussion item. Once they were trying to actually make the new window proposal, they wanted to make it work.
 And they wanted to find a way to approve it, so they worked really hard to find what things can we change about this window to make it approvable. And glazing was one of those things they thought that if it were changed, it would become an approvable window. So that was the sort of procedural concern they had, why it came up at the second hearing, not the first. I'm trying to see what else. And so... Could I ask a question about the 4% differentiation issue?
 in the, I think it was in the glazing, if I remember correctly. I can't find it right now. That was the slide up. This is their concerns. Yes. That the conditioned glass only has a clarity 4% greater than the appellants. Again, I'm no great expert on glass clarity, but 4% seems like a rather small difference. Right. I mean, how visible is that?
 I can't answer the question of how visible it is, but I can say that that ... So what happened was they said, this isn't clear enough. We need you to bring something clearer. But based on what standard? That was the ... You mean 4%? Right. That was the challenge. They didn't ask for a 4% difference. What they asked for was bring us the very clearest glass you can bring while still meeting your energy requirements.
 But this was being done on the fly in a hearing. So everyone was pulling out their phones trying to say, what would be the clearest glass that would still meet their energy requirements clearer than this glass? And so it came down to, well, everyone knows of this one particular glass, the Starfire, is a little bit clearer. So let's use that as the baseline standard. And so the condition is written to say that they have to bring a clear glass or they have to use a clear glass than what was presented.
 with a baseline of the Starfire and hopefully better than the Starfire, but at a minimum the Starfire. So that's where that 4% kind of came from, is the difference between the Starfire, which was a frame of reference for the commissioners that they'd worked with, versus what was presented to them. Because this was all just that mad scramble of like, bring back a glass sample in two weeks, and the applicant saying, no, we want an answer today, right?
 So we hashed it out. It's an imperfect way to do it, but we really wanted to get them approved and out the door. The condition is written so that they have some flexibility in terms of that they don't have to use that brand of window, but as long as the clarity is equal to that and greater than what was proposed. I'm just trying to see the bigger picture here. I mean, this is an historic building. It's a great building. It's right in the center of the central city. We've invested heavily in...
 in public infrastructure in the immediate vicinity and the building, though grand she is, is a tired old dump in need of a lot of attention. And somebody's offering us an opportunity to do that and we're quibbling over 4% greater clarity. I mean, as an outsider to this thing, I certainly appreciate where we're trying to go, but this
 Seems really in the weeds. I understand that. The 4% value came after the hearing when the appeal came in. Okay. I think that was the applicant noting that it's a 4% greater clarity. I think across the broad spectrum of the entire facade...
 That would add up as you're looking into it. Historic buildings have clear glass. Anything darker than clear is going to essentially betray it as a replacement window. Right. Well, and the energy efficiency quotient is also important to me. Sure. Separate from this hearing, we've said very aggressive –
 climate goals for the city of Portland, and we've asked developers and builders to actively participate in helping us to achieve those goals. They didn't worry about that 100 years ago, and now we do. Let me offer just a slightly different context for how I'm now going to hear the other evidence, because we're just getting the staff report. The park that faces this building is
 one of the great public spaces in our city and was built 60-40 private public resources and was one of the great acts of generosity of Tom Moyer and Jordan Schnitzer to build this thing. It was deliberately built as hardscrabble and in a...
 in a design enhancement that proposed by Zeri Santner, it was built building to building. So the park is extended so the design includes the street. So the entire plaza could be activated. We all have different aesthetic judgments, and I'm not prejudging this issue, but...
 having invested a lot of my time and life in bringing that park to fruition as the then Parks Commissioner in Charge, I will say that perhaps the singular view of that park is facing this historic building. No disrespect to the two modern towers which are updating our downtown.
 But there is something magical about the way the park interacts with the Guild, and that I think is also historically significant because the Guild is so identified with Tom Moyer's legacy around film and that building. And the park would not have happened without an extraordinary act of generosity.
 But again, there is a symbiotic relationship between the two, and they were designed in tandem. And I would just offer that as a perspective as we think about the windows. Great. Any other thoughts, questions? Yes.
 Very thorough staff report. I think Tanya has one last slide. Oh, I apologize. And I just want to say, I pulled up the glazing slide just to show you guys one more time of what glazing can mean on a building with a lot of windows. It can be very green, very distracting, very reflective compared to what you see in the guild in that lower left-hand corner, which is all very, very clear glass. So it just seems petty, but it is an important element of the building. It's a highly glazed building. Okay.
 So I had a question about that, too. And believe me, I'm not trying to be problematic. But if you look at – what am I looking at? Is that St. Mary's there? I can't tell. MLC. So you've got MLC up there on the right, and they have fairly dark glazed windows. Those were replacement windows, yeah. And you'll notice the blinds are up. And then you look at the historic building with its clear glazing, and the blinds are all closed. And, again, that's sort of –
 I know that there have been discussions about this glazing issue before, and whether blinds are what you see from the outside or whether windows are what you see from the outside. So I just want to throw that out there as well. That's a good question. I think, honestly, I think the building's been under a lot of turnover. There might have been construction on that floor because that whole floor had the blinds in a very consistent way, and the rest of the building didn't.
 That building is under a lot of transition right now. I don't know if those blinds would always be down on a normal day. So maybe the owners can speak to that. Very good.
 Okay, so he asked to go to my last slide. Okay, so then you have these alternatives that you can deny the appeal and uphold what was already issued. You can deny the appeal and uphold the commission, but also even still monkey around with the modification, sorry, the conditions. You can grant the appeal and you can remove the third and fourth bullets of the condition of approval D.
 And that would still uphold the decision of approval. Or you can continue the hearing. Very good. And I think that's it. Excellent. Very thorough staff report. Thank you. Appreciate it. So next up, the appellant has 10 minutes. And again, you should expect you'll get interrupted with questions, but that doesn't count towards your 10 minutes. If you could just state your name for the record, please. Were these glass pieces shown at the hearing? This one was. And this is showing the 4%.
 Was the one that you're now touching, was that shown at the hearing? So could I get some clarity as to whether we're allowed to consider that? Unfortunately, the new sample would be considered new evidence. Vanessa Sturgeon, representing the Tired Old Dump. V-A-N-E-S-S-A-S-T-U-R-G-O-M. Can I interrupt and clarify my remarks there? It's a beautiful old building.
 I was totally joking, Mayor. It's just fine. But the building needs attention. And my point was actually to compliment you. Thank you. And acknowledge that you're trying to make a significant investment in a building that
 that I think most people would acknowledge is worthy of that investment. So I'm actually applauding you and your colleagues for being willing to make an investment in that building rather than doing as Commissioner Udaly suggested, which you have the legal right to do after 120 days, which is demolish it.
 I was definitely not suggesting that you do that. Thank you. No, and I'm not suggesting that. So I just want to be really clear. I'm complimenting you and thanking you for being willing to go through the process of trying to restore what was an architectural gem. So thank you for that. Thank you. And you're right. I would agree. It really is in need of significant attention. So, yeah.
 The purpose of the window replacement is that the windows are currently corroding and leaking, and they are composed, unfortunately, of lead. So we are looking to replace them to prolong the life of the building, to stop the leaking, and of course to improve the energy efficiency. Okay.
 The proposed new window matches the building's original craftsmanship and material quality.
 in style, color, operability, and form. And I will tell you, this has been an incredibly taxing journey for my staff. It has taken us two years to get to this point where we have been able to find a satisfactory product to replace these windows. They just aren't manufactured anymore. So kudos to my staff, Kristen in particular, for doing two years' worth of research to find an acceptable option.
 As you can see, the existing condition of the windows are very poor. The casements are inoperable. Concern over attachment integrity is a euphemism for falling out. Some of them are in with duct tape. And we are concerned about lead dust exposure from peeling and delaminating paint.
 The seventh, eighth, and ninth floor windows are leaking significantly, and the windows are single pane, which is why you see the blinds closed often because they leak hot and cold air in and out. And they unfortunately don't do a lot to block noise on the street, so people close their blinds in an effort to mitigate those issues.
 This is a photo of the existing window and an elevation of the existing window and the proposed window elevation is included on the far right. We think that it matches the existing windows quite well. I don't understand, what do you mean by elevation?
 And elevation is an architectural rendering drawing. So the difference between a photograph and elevation are, you know, an actual picture and a rendering. So when we're talking about the differences in these windows, we're talking about widths.
 that are two-eighths of an inch and one-eighth of an inch slimmer than what is existing. The muntin proposed for the exterior will be the exact same size as what is existing. So the only thing at issue today is whether or not those muntins are continued onto the inside of the building.
 I think it's important to note that we've chosen to move forward with a different window series than was originally proposed to the design commission on January 19th. They asked us to come back with a window that more closely matched the measurements of the head, jam, and sill, and we did that with the WinCo 3250 series. There was a $70,000 premium to do so, and we accepted that premium as an improvement to the overall project.
 It is our position that the proposed window, WinCo 3250, meets the C3 guideline and the conditions of approval go beyond a reasonable interpretation of the intent of the code.
 So the first condition was that the glazing for the windows shall have a greater clarity than the sample presented at the March 2nd hearing. And part of the frustration is that we did bring glass samples to the January 19th hearing. And we heard no objection from the Design Review Commission about the clarity of the glass in that first hearing. So what they've proposed and...
 Includes that 4% variation, adds a $57,000 cost premium. The second condition is that the muntins will be added to the inside of the buildings. Now, I'd ask you also to consider that the windows are 16 feet from the ground. So the conjecture that they'll be seen from the street level, I think, is quite a stretch, right?
 So again, that adds additional costs to the project that is, at this point, unfortunately, a budget buster for us. We've accepted the additional $70,000 condition. We're working with a bank on the project. It's a $2 million window replacement and an 11% premium that's being requested here just puts the project over the line in terms of budget.
 We don't feel that a 4% greater clarity better meets with the intent of design guidelines C3. And, well, we had two glass samples to show you, but it is very, very hard to tell the difference, if you can tell at all, between the conditions that the design review has put on with the glass clarity. Again, those windows are 16 feet off of the ground. So this is a good perspective of how far off the ground these windows are.
 South facing view of the same 16 feet off the ground. Oops. Okay.
 So our proposed windows respect the original character of the studio building by replicating the exterior muntins on the current windows. And as shown in the visuals from the third and second slides, we've also brought a sample of the muntin with us that is here for you to see in person. The condition of approval does not help us meet the design guidelines of C3. The windows we're proposing in their current state already meet it. It's on this particular appeal...
 One of the reasons that we had to call for a vote at the end of the second hearing was that we received new direction again at that first hearing with the glass. Then we received more feedback at the second hearing. It took us a month to get back on the calendar for the second hearing, and we need to take advantage of the timing with the good weather coming in the summer, or we will have to wait until next year at the very earliest to do the project. Again, we have...
 financing that is coming through a bank on this project and the additional $120,000 that's added to the project or $105,000 rather puts us over budget in terms of what we have penciled in for a
 the renovation of the building. And it's in the context of an $8 million renovation overall. A lot of that is going into modernizing the mechanical systems, the domestic water lines, which are corroded and in drastic need of attention. When I had the windows replaced in my house, they did it in November. So what's the problem with doing it over the winter? It's occupied as a commercial building. So we can do it over the winter again,
 But essentially it involves a wrap, plastic wrap, around an entire commercial building. So it's like enveloping the commercial building in a giant condom for the entire winter. It's unsightly. And the poor folks inside will have no view. Quick, move on. That's a first. Some people call that art.
 And other people just say there's no view. So anyway. I have a question. Yes, Commissioner Fish, save us. So, Ms. Sturgeon, let me just, about two appeals ago from Design Review,
 I think it began to dawn on us that we were going to get more and more appeals of design review processes, in part because of the more frenetic activity in the marketplace, which is a good sign. But it potentially put us in the position of playing referee on these things on a more regular basis. And –
 We've had prior hearings where we've debated whether it's appropriate to use a roof-type substance as a siding of a building in the inner southeast and the aesthetic considerations and durability. We've had other things. And I actually find these fascinating hearings because I find the staff reports interesting. You learn a lot about the history of our city.
 But I also want to – I don't want us to become the default design review commission. And I'm not sure how we can avoid that because people have a right to bring it here. So I just want to make sure – we don't have a – apparently Restore Oregon has not taken a formal position on this case. So from your point of view, there's a cost component.
 There's a timing component in terms of wanting to move forward on this project. So both of those were yes. And the third is that you take a principled view that the design commission purview is limited to the exterior of the window, not the interior. Is that a fair characterization? That's correct. And I also, to be quite candid with you, think that part of the reason that we're here is because we're
 There was what we feel a significant amount of stepping into the deep, deep minutia of the building, of the design, which seems to me to be outside the purview of what the Design Review Commission is supposed to be tasked with doing.
 Wasn't that because they didn't like the aluminum windows at all, and they wanted you to do steel like the originals? Say that again, Commissioner. The reason that these are getting into the minutiae is because they initially denied the application altogether because they wanted you to do steel replacements. They wanted us to refurbish the steel windows that were already there. Yes. And that's impossible. So the windows that you're proposing now are double-pane? They're double-pane.
 The aluminum looks sort of like wood on the exterior, so I guess the technology is evolving, so it's pretty hard to tell. Does the aluminum look like wood? Well, the exterior doesn't look like – No, the aluminum doesn't look like wood. It doesn't look like aluminum, does it? It needs to just look current. Well, whatever. It looks to me – maybe I'm just going so blind I can't tell one way or another. But it's double-plane, so it's energy efficient. And –
 From your point of view, what is your understanding as to the benefit of that interior spacer bar? That's the part I can't quite figure out. I think I understand the muttons, although every time I say that, I think of someone with a haircut. But what is the...
 aesthetic and functional benefit of the interior spacer bar as you understand it? Our view is that there is limited to none in terms of benefit. And that's the issue. That's why we don't want to spend the additional $50,000 doing it. So the muntins are already, and spacers are already there on the outside of the windows. Thank you. I have a couple of clarifying questions. You said you'd settled on a different glass product. Is that correct? Yes.
 No. No. Oh. What was the additional 60? Ah, to upgrade to the Starfire, the 4% difference. Right. That's, I mean, different from the sample that you brought today. Yes, exactly. Right. Okay. So the larger piece of glass is what we settled on, this piece right here. Let me show this. Okay. So this is the glass you'll use? That's the glass. Oh, okay. I see. That's the Starfire? No. Oh. We can't show the Starfire because it wasn't presented.
 It was referenced, but the sample wasn't shown. So this is a sample of glass you're no longer going to use? No, this is the glass we'd like to use. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. I thought there'd been a change since the hearing. Okay. And is this in the record technically? Yeah. Could you rotate it this way just for a second? So if the Starfire is referenced, we can't show it? Thank you. And if that had a 4%...
 it would be arguably just a little lighter? It's not even discernible. You cannot tell the difference. Is there a... Does it naturally reflect any of the colors in the environment on the exterior, or is it just a neutral? To the naked eye, you can see literally no difference between the two. Okay. Okay.
 feel very torn on this issue. I mean, I care about historic preservation. I love this building. That glass does look dark to me. On the other hand, the first request that you restore the original windows I don't feel was reasonable because you've mentioned it's not even possible, but they are like the least energy efficient windows you could probably have. Yes.
 I guess unless you were missing some pains. So I support that upgrade. So could I just suggest we let them finish their presentation and hear the rest of the testimony? We're finished, Commissioner. Thank you. I mean, not to complicate matters, but I wonder would it make any... Could you do a clear glass on the second floor with the inside muttons to satisfy them or...
 I mean, is there a compromise? I mean, looking at the building, there's this significant, you know, the second floor is different than the rest. And it's the closest to the eye. It's 16 feet away. Well, if I have a second to just ask our architect who's here. Oh, okay. If he's going to weigh in, he should probably come up.
 Why don't we do this? We have an opportunity after this presentation for supporters to come forward and speak. And so if you don't mind waiting, we'll give you your own three minutes. Is that good?
 I'm just looking for a way to balance the aesthetic concerns with the energy efficiency and the cost, which I think each one is an important element. And, Mayor, can I just ask a question? Sure. Because we have a member of the Design Review Commission here, and I just want to ask, does the Design Review Commission member that's here today intending to testify or just observe? Testify? Okay, so that will be after we hear from the… Yeah, they'll get a 15-minute…
 Okay. So why don't we do this? If we're done with questions for the appellant at this point, why don't we let you take a seat? And thank you for your testimony. And we'll hear from any supporters of the appeal for three minutes each. And again, if you could just, thank you very much. If you could just state your name for the record, please. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and fellow commissioners. I'm Peter Meijer from Peter Meijer Architects, 605 Northeast 21st Avenue. And with me is... Paula Hoffer with Peter Meijer Architect. Very good. Thank you. Just in way of background of this...
 We were asked by TMT if we could assist them with this project. Before we even were hired, they asked about the historic status of this property and what their options were. So they put much time into the due diligence on whether or not they elevate this property to a historic status and whether or not that would be of benefit to them as a company.
 Throughout this project, we continue to have that level of conversation. Unfortunately, the design commission made that one of their high points of reviewing these windows. It's my personal belief that we would have had a much easier time in front of the historic landmarks commission with window replacements because that is a commission body that is used to getting replacement windows. So what the benefit of coming back...
 On the second round is that we propose a much stronger look alike. These are steel windows, and the replacement window comes very, very, very close, if not identical to those windows. The question on the table from Commissioner Eduli was whether or not there could be a compromise. We wouldn't recommend that because you'll see a clarity on the second floor, and you'll see it.
 You'll see a difference on the second floor to going. So we would recommend that you stay with the windows as the applicant has proposed from a historic standpoint for a consistency from the facade. With the new windows and the new mechanical system and the new balance of the interior environment, it's very unlikely that you'll see these windows open and closed.
 They also will have to put limiters on the windows so that one doesn't fall out. So those two will limit the amount, if any, at all in the swing seasons that you might see on beautiful days like today. But it's highly unlikely once everything is completed that the windows would ever be opened. So I think it is an accurate description to say what we actually view from the exterior. And from the exterior, they're almost, if not identical dimensions.
 Could I ask a question about that? Absolutely. I don't understand that they look identical versus don't do something different on the second floor versus the ones above because you'll see the difference. Correct me if I didn't hear the request to go to a clearer glass on the second floor. Yes. There's visually no difference between the Starfire and what is proposed.
 But I didn't know if the question was to go to a third type of glass that had an even more clarity. Those third types don't meet energy codes, so you should know what you're requesting in that. So had this been a landmark building, had we gone in front of the land, we would have been able to –
 have the opportunity not to meet energy codes, we don't have that option in this property because it is not a landmark structure. We all love it as a historic building. We all look at it as a contributor to the city of Portland's lamp, but it technically is not a landmark property. So when I heard clear, I'm thinking it's a third type of glass. No, I think... No, that was correct. Okay. And I guess the question I would ask, because I...
 It may not be a design requirement, but I think of this building in the context of the plaza and the design. In your professional opinion, does the design that is being proposed by the appellant, who obviously you work with, is it harmonized and consistent with the vision of the park? Yes.
 Absolutely. This is not an uncommon request in today's development world to find reuse for these buildings, keep these buildings alive. Now that you've heard this case, you may see the difference. As professionals, we may see the difference, but the vast majority of people will not see a difference, and so it will not lose any of that relationship of the building to the plaza.
 In fact, all the ground floor work that is being done on the Guild Theater will actually enhance that relationship with them. So we don't see any detriment to the park or that whole urban experience with this work. Thank you.
 I don't have anything to add. I was just here for extra questions. I was managing the project. Very good. Are there other supporters of the appeal who would like to testify? Yes, sir. Come on up and state your name for the record, please. Yes.
 My name is Robert Pye. I'm with TMT Development as well. Just a couple of quick things. I wanted to clarify what I maybe heard. Robert, is the green light on? Yes. Sorry, am I not close enough? There we go. Thank you. Just to make extra clear, extra sure that your question was asked and answered, I think you asked about the extra cost going from the first design review hearing to the second design review hearing. As Vanessa mentioned, that was the $70,000 premium to go to the different model. I just wanted to make sure that didn't get lost in the question about the glass.
 Commissioner Fish, I would say too on the question about the park, obviously we as neighbors and those that live in the park love it very much and see how much it gets used. I think one thing I would advise we consider too is the position of the studio building in relationship to the park. If you're standing in the park, the nearest point of occupancy in the park related to the studio building is quite a bit.
 quite a little ways back. You have the Elephant's Deli as well as sort of the stormwater treatment, the overhead canopy of glass. I think just the perspective of the studio building from the park has some obstructions, if you will. So I think the overall impact that you might see of the studio building, if there was a difference in clarity of glass and things like that, is somewhat minimized, just kind of given where it sits in relationship to the rest of the park. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. So is that all the supporters that would like to speak? Okay.
 Very good. Next, the principal opponent has 15 minutes to speak. I think technically we don't have a principal opponent in this appeal, so just... Very good. Okay. We don't consider the design commission to be an opponent of the appeal, but they certainly can speak as opponents of the appeal, so the typical three minutes, but...
 If you need more, Julie, I'm sure they will. Yeah, if you need more than three. This has all been very conversational. Yeah, I'm sure we can accommodate, and you'll probably get some questions anyway. So, yes. I forget to state your name for the record. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Julie Livingston. I am here as a volunteer. I'm a member of the Portland Design Commission, and I'm a member of the Portland Design Commission.
 I have prepared some testimony, but I think instead what I will do is just offer a couple of clarifications based on comments and questions that have already surfaced and then answer your questions. So not in any particular order. I'd like to address Peter's comment that buildings on the HRI should be reviewed by landmarks. I agree with that.
 Um, this is a, even though this building is not on the National Register of Historic Places, it and many other buildings in our city are very significant. And, uh, regardless of whether or not it is listed, and regardless of whether or not it is in, uh, an historic district, this building should be looked at by landmarks. They bring kind of a level of authority, uh, to this, uh, type of a building that I think Design Commission may not. Okay.
 Are you suggesting that in lieu of design commission or in addition? In lieu of design commission. I think that landmarks should look at buildings on the HRI. Oh, that's interesting. Okay. Sounds like a good idea to come from that.
 Commissioner Udailey, you asked a question about restoration versus replacement. In the first meeting, it was never suggested that restoration of the existing steel windows would be necessary. The majority of commissioners believed that replacement was reasonable. Having a well-functioning office space with energy-efficient windows, this is a great improvement to this building.
 The building needs some love, and folks were very glad to see that the owner was willing to give it. So there was never, even though we had a lot of discussion about restoration and the difficulty of doing that, it was never suggested that that was the correct path or the only path that the owner should be on.
 Just as a point, when steel windows are repaired, say a building is on the register, it is possible to install insulated glazing units in steel windows. So for instance, the town storage building on the east side of Portland, which is currently being renovated, that building has old wood windows which have been replaced. The new windows have insulated glazing units and they meet energy code.
 The Fisk Tire Building, which is in the 13th, Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District. It's where cargo used to be located and room and board is moving in. Those windows have been steel sash, very similar to the windows in the studio building. They have been renovated and repaired, sort of the original steel sash, and the owner has installed new insulated glazing units. So, again, they meet energy code, and they are all new windows.
 Both of those buildings went through landmarks, not design commission. And there was really never, as far as I understand, any discussion about whether or not those windows would meet energy code or if the owner was willing to spend the money to do that work. It just happened as a matter of course and it was not a condition.
 Commissioner Fish, you asked about cost and availability. This is commonly available. This work is done on historic buildings frequently. So the muntins, true divided lights, the interior spacer bars, all of those types of amenities for windows are commonly available.
 And there is generally a slight uptick in cost on historic buildings because the glass was originally clear. On historic buildings, generally a great amount of effort is put into moving towards the clearest glass available. Insulated glazing units have gas in between the panes of glass and coatings on the glass.
 The starfire glass itself has less iron in the glass. So it's all of the coatings and the gas that make the energy efficiency happen. The actual glass itself in the starfire glass, or the equivalent of the starfire glass, has less iron in it and is less green. So there's a difference in color. There's a difference in clarity, in reflectivity, and in light transmittance. Generally, it's like those four elements.
 Can I ask you something, Julie? If you were to rank in significance the two conditions, one above the other, how would you rank them? And this is going to be helpful to my decision-making here. Yeah, and I am not representing all of the design commission when I answer a question like this. No, I'm asking you and your opinion. Yeah, yeah. Neither is –
 perfect outcome. With the spacer bars and the muntins, it is still somewhat obvious that that is not a true divided light. It does a pretty good job of replicating a true divided light. The reason you want the spacer bar in the middle is so that you're not just looking through the glass. If there is no spacer bar, you can tell. It's just absolutely obvious that the window is not a true divided light, so the spacer bar mitigates that.
 With the color of the glass, with the greener glass, it is absolutely evident that it is a replacement window. A lot of work, the owner put a lot of work into the correct profile. So the windows themselves, the actual metal profile is good. Given the choice between, if you're asking me to make the choice between one or the other, I would generally elect to have something that approximates a true divided light over clearer glass. Okay.
 I thought you were going to go the other way, but thank you. I think it's more in keeping with the historic character of the building. Once the quality of the true divided light is absent, you won't get that back.
 The glass, as people look at the glass, they will realize that there's new glass here. Most people may not see the difference between a true divided light and the window pattern, the assembly that we've recommended. Is there anything else that was discussed at either of the hearings that we should be aware of?
 I will say that when it came time to vote, Peter mentioned that the owner asked to call the vote. At that time, we understood that both the clear glass and the Muntin Assembly was acceptable to the owner. Excuse me, I'm trying to listen. Could you...
 Not so, thank you. We understood at that time when the vote was called for that both the clear glass and the Muntin Assembly, that those were acceptable conditions to the owner. And so the appeal was in fact a surprise to us because there was not contentious discussion around that. So had we known differently at the time, we may have had more or different conversation that would have led to a different outcome. Say more about that?
 Well, I won't project what type of conversation we might have had, but if it had been clear at the second meeting that the owner was not satisfied with the conditions around clearer glass and the Muntin Assembly, we would have had more conversation about that at the time, trying to get to a different yes answer than perhaps maybe even a no vote. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you very much. You were very thorough. Are there any other? Before Julie leaves, just in the interest of fairness, because we asked the appellant not to show their piece of starfire glass, there was some testimony that you gave about composition of glass, and I don't know whether that was part of the record before, and if it was not, it's probably appropriate for counsel to acknowledge it was new evidence and disregard it.
 So discussion of the iron content and the gas between the panes, if that was not discussed. Very good. I'm trying to be – It will not influence my decision. It probably went over my head anyway. Very good. Are there any other opponents of the appeal who would like to speak? Very good. Is there any rebuttal by the appellant that you would care to make? And if so, you have five minutes. Thank you. I will not need five minutes. I'm just going to make one point. Okay.
 I want to underscore what Peter Meijer said, which is that there is virtually no discernible difference between what we have proposed and what the Design Review Commission would like us to do in terms of the conditions. There is, however, a significant cost difference. So I just would ask that you consider that point. Very good. Thank you. Again, what the cost difference is? $105,000. Okay.
 On top of $70,000? No, $70,000 we already accepted as an additional cost to the project. It's $105,000 on top of a project that's already $2 million.
 So what was the $70,000 for? The $70,000 is an additional change to the frame of the windows that was made after the first design review hearing. And we accepted that request from the Design Review Commission to make that change. And frankly, it was a good suggestion. Thank you very much.
 All right, colleagues, this is the time where we can have a discussion or I can accept a motion or we can decide to keep the record open or we can close the record. Mayor, let me, if I can. Commissioner Fritz, then Commissioner Fish. Could I have staff come back up, please?
 Was there any discussion at either of the hearings about whether or not the windows would prevent the building potentially getting on the National Historic Register if they weren't done correctly? Yeah, am I on? Sorry. That came up, I think, primarily at the first hearing. The first hearing centered on that a lot, and they say that it's a character-defining feature and that, yeah, if you remove them,
 That could have consequences. Do you remember? Yeah, I would say that the Design Commission acknowledged that this building, besides having significant architecture, also has a very high level of integrity. Those are two of the things that you are pretty much required to become listed in the National Register. There was concern that the replacement of the windows could jeopardize a future listing by either the current or potentially future owners.
 owner. There are some buildings that they replace the windows and they're listed anyway, and that is totally possible with this building. But I think the quality of
 the windows that go in could have some influence on that. And did the design commission recommend to the applicant that they pursue the historic designation? It did come up. It came up at the staff level. They said that they considered it,
 And design commission also noted again, independent of our considerations that there are financial benefits, tax rehabilitation, tax credits that the owner could take advantage of if they restored the existing windows. Yeah. And it was definitely stated that they truly believe at least members of the commission, not necessarily all of them truly believe the windows could be restored, could be, you know, made more thermally, um,
 you know, a better thermal level, but also restored. So I don't think there's a definite answer to that, whether they could be restored or not. And did they, in proposing the two conditions, was there discussion of whether they felt that with those conditions it could qualify as a historic designation and therefore qualify for the tax credits? Yes.
 I think that the two dissenters firmly had concerns about that, and they were the ones who were, I'd say, the most concerned the whole way through the process. I think that question was no longer part of the consideration because the owner said that it was a business decision to not move forward with listing. So, I mean, that's their choice. There's no further push on that.
 Thank you for the clarification. Commissioner Fish? Well, Mayor, I just offer just a couple of points to hopefully assault the discussion. I really appreciate this hearing, and I appreciate the clarity of the presentations, and I personally do not want the council on a regular basis to be placed in the position of deciding these questions.
 And I am concerned that even though there is a right of appeal, that we become the body that makes what I consider to be very, very specific judgments that sort of are partially aesthetic and partially code and partially others. And that is the right where the system is set up that way. I don't think we are the best equipped body. And I appreciate actually the testimony. I appreciated the comment.
 earlier that we may want to revisit our process and have these kinds of things go to historic review. That makes sense to me. This is not like a case that we've had recently where there seemed to be a wholesale unwillingness to engage the Design Review Commission, so that doesn't apply here.
 This does not seem like a case where the parties haven't made an effort to reach common ground. Clearly, there's work that's gone into getting to this proposal, even though reasonable people can disagree at this point. And for me, it is important that this is a building in a highly visible area off of a distinguished plaza. And so I think it's going to get some attention.
 But as I try to balance all this, Mayor and colleagues, and I feel like this is one where I could almost flip a coin. And frankly, what tips the scale for me is I don't think we can compel someone to list their property as a condition of getting a tax credit. I don't want to be in the position of doing that. And I think cost should be – I think cost is a relevant factor. So on balance, and it's a very close call, I would be inclined to grant the appeal and deny the conditions.
 Is there a second? I'll second. So Commissioner Fish moves, Commissioner Saltzman seconds. Pardon me. Could I ask for a clarification? Please. The conditions that you're recommending striking, are they just the two bullets in question? The two bullets in question. I think those are the ones that you said were before us. Good clarification. Just those two. Thank you. That's right. Yeah. No, just the two in question. And as I said, it's a very close call. Okay.
 Further discussion on the motion. I would just echo the sentiment that Commissioner Fish just expressed. I feel extremely unqualified to be making these types of decisions about something that I cannot even detect a difference in. It takes me into a level of design detail that I am ill-equipped to have a constructive understanding, comprehension, or meaningful participation in. But I do understand that this has been before the Design Commission twice.
 It seems like it's come down to a very subjective level of detail, and I guess at some point that's really what we're asked to use here is our subjective best judgments. And in my best judgment, there's a lot of effort being put into this building to make it a vital building again and respect its history. And I just don't think that...
 And also I think the issue about having the risers or the dividers so the windows aren't even going to be fully open, I think those are things that make me support removing those two conditions of concern. Commissioner Fritz? Yeah, I guess I have the same concerns and would then come down on the opposite side of it, that since I don't consider myself an expert in this, I do consider the Design Commission experts, especially with the advice of staff, that I would tend to defer to their advice.
 opinion because the approval criteria say we must approve land use applications if they can be approved or if the approval criteria are met or if they can be met with appropriate conditions and I respect that the design commission tried very hard to get to yes after the initial no to then put in the conditions that they believe would be merited, would improve the project so I my colleagues on the left
 I feel like they don't have the information to go against the appeal. I feel I don't really have the information to go against the Design Commission. That is a close call. So I'll chime in as well. First of all, I want to, again, thank the members of the Design Review Commission and state again clearly they are volunteers and they are dedicating a lot of their time and their energy and their expertise to that effort.
 And I'm very appreciative of that, and I want to be very clear. This case, I think, Commissioner Fish, you nailed it when you said you don't want to regularly be in a position of having to make decisions about a 4% difference in light or the muntins and the dividers and all that. It's a lot to take in in one hearing and decide.
 what ultimately is something of a subjective decision. And we have that expertise on design review, and we have that expertise elsewhere to make those decisions, and it sounds like there was some division there as well. And I am making my decision, I want to be very clear, based on that narrow question of the conditions. So I want to be clear.
 That being said, I also want to acknowledge, unless the attorney stops me and tells me I shouldn't say these things, I also heard during the testimony that this has been a two-year-long process. And...
 We have an organization that wants to restore this incredible asset in the community, and it seems like we're really, really close to the yes on this, although there are some honest disagreements about the window treatment. And I am persuaded that the right thing to do here is let them go forth with their project. I think they've made a good faith effort. It sounds like they've been responsive. They addressed the questions here correctly.
 very well. So I would support Commissioner Fish's motion based on that. But I agree. I actually like the fact everybody seemed to agree that for those on the historic list, it would make sense for them to go to the commission rather than design review. I think that's actually a great suggestion worth pursuing. And by the way, I want to acknowledge, if I could, just what Commissioner Fritz said, because
 If I was channeling my inner Vera Katz, what I would say is I want the commission to decide these things, so I will deny every appeal that comes forward to force the parties to work it out. So I appreciate and respect the logic of that.
 But for me, it comes down to the fact that it just is six of one, half dozen of the other. And I can't find a path forward to go beyond what they've done. Weirdly enough for me, it's pretty clear cut. I mean, based on the issues that have been brought forth to us,
 And I'm sure I'll regret having said this tomorrow based on my email inbox, but these don't strike me as the big issues. The big issue is whether, you know, and I've heard people previously say the objective here with design review is to make sure bad buildings don't get built.
 And even as I weigh the two alternatives here, I'm not seeing a whole lot of difference that at least I as a layman see, particularly if the windows aren't going to open. I was actually really intrigued by the argument when I saw that the windows swing fully out. But if they're not even going to swing fully out, to me that lessens the strength of that argument in opposition to the appeal. So I actually think it's pretty clear-cut from my perspective. Thank you.
 I need the city attorney to repeat the actual question that we are being asked via...
 Just the question. The question you're being asked is whether to uphold or deny the appeal based on whether you think those two conditions are necessary to satisfy the design review approval criteria. Is that what you're asking? Okay. I thought you had said something slightly more restrictive than that. Okay. Okay.
 And I'm going to note, and you're in deliberation, so this is at the mayor's discretion, but it is my understanding that the opening of the windows being limited is not something that was discussed down at Design Commission either. Fair enough. That doesn't change my view specifically with regard to the muttons, the dividers, or the clarity issue for the record. Without further ado, call the roll.
 Fish? I want to thank everybody for- I'm going to interrupt again. I'm sorry. Fine. Oops. The findings that you have are for a decision that includes the criteria. So today I am assuming you are making a tentative decision and we'll come back with findings. And after you've voted, we'll figure out when that happens. Very good. Thank you for the clarification. Please call the roll. Fish? We are so lucky to have Carla and Lindley in our chambers on a regular basis. Thank you both, ladies.
 I want to thank everybody that took the time today to come and testify and present the facts and the arguments. I particularly want to thank a member of the Design Review Commission for taking the time. I don't know how she balances the rest of her life because she's often here providing context and her expertise on these issues. And that's going above and beyond, Julie, and it's very much appreciated up here and noted.
 Um, this is a close call and I think reasonable people could disagree about the outcome, but I believe this is the sensible path forward. And I appreciate, um, uh, the process that led us to here. Saltzman. Hi. Udaly. This is also a close call for me. I mean, what I would personally like to see happen to the building is different than what I, uh, think is necessary, necessarily reasonable to require. Um,
 I agree. I'd like to see these buildings go before the historic review. I'm going to vote aye with some reservation, but aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Well, I still love land use hearings, even when I'm on the downside of the vote, because by definition they are discretionary decisions when reasonable people can disagree, and they do. And so I really want to thank everybody who came to the appeal hearing today and for the principled way that the pros and cons were discussed. Once again, looking at the actual project and the pros and cons rather than any kind of aspersions of one side or the other.
 In some measure, I'm going to do my no vote to show in the record that it wasn't a straight up and down slam dunk and that I do continue to value the Design Review Commission. Since the vote has now already been made, I can say that I also have experience in my own home where I have just discovered I have a muntin on my front door. I thought it was a wooden lattice.
 And it's only on one side, and it would look very different if it was on both sides. So I shall go home and tell my daughter, look at the nice mountain we have right here. In fact, we didn't know what it was when we bought the house. It was in a cupboard, and I was like, I think that's supposed to go on the front door. So I do appreciate that these are economic issues as well as...
 aesthetic and I very much appreciate the fact that the lovely old building is being kept, restored and put to another 100 years of good use. Thank you very much. Wheeler. I think it's all been said. Thank you all for being here. It was great hearing. I learned a lot. I'm going to vote in support of the motion so the motion passes 4-2-1.
 We'll schedule a time to come back. And we will schedule a time to come back, and we'll just have to look at the schedule. So under our code, the prevailing party, if the appellant wins and they are represented, can prepare the findings and come back. I don't know if that is your intent to have your representative draft the findings. So staff would work with Peter. How much time does the appellant think they need to prepare revised findings? Three weeks. Three weeks.
 It has to be within 120 days, is that correct? I think we have a good amount of time until... That's really it. So that's to decide how much time they need, isn't it? July 21st. So if we do three weeks as typical, that would mean that... Meaning you would get the findings to staff within two weeks. Okay. So, Carla, do we have a time in three weeks for a final vote? It would be May 31st. The mayor is gone.
 That's okay. I think that's okay. As long as we have a quorum. And if it's necessary for me to change my vote in order to have the vote at that day, I'm glad to do that. That's just a simple majority vote, correct? Yeah, but it has to be three. We have to have three, and these are the ultimate in pro forma. But it could be a morning time certain since it's just findings. Either morning or afternoon. Just one second. Does it have to be time certain, counsel? It does. Sorry. Okay.
 I'm going to give you that spot. Let's go with the 1020 on May 31st. I'm sorry, what was the time? 1020 a.m. 1020 a.m. All right, great. So...
 This hearing is closed, or technically, is this a continuation, legal counsel? It's a continuation, but we're setting it over to May 31st, 1020, for a final vote. Okay, very good. So May 31st, 1020 a.m. will be the final vote on this subject. Thank you all for attending. We are adjourned.