tax are designed by the way we say so that the bed and breakfast operator John is going to say that the out of state company is going to be doing the same lodging tax as a bed and breakfast operator every day every day every day every school every you know good point great
 All right. You ready? Yes. Okay, good. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, May 17th AM session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And before we begin, I just want to extend a couple of congratulations. First of all, I want to congratulate our city auditor, Mary Hull Caballero, and her team on
 A resounding and overwhelming victory last night on the independence effort that was referred by the Portland City Council to the ballot last night. I want to thank the auditor and her team, and I most certainly want to thank...
 the voters of this community for supporting what I think is a very good and strong statement in support of government accountability. I also want to thank my colleague, Commissioner Nick Fish and the Portland City Council, who referred a tax fairness measure to the ballot.
 which also won by landslide proportions. That was an attempt at tax fairness to make sure that out-of-state providers of overnight rental units were paying the same taxes as a bed-and-breakfast operator in St. John's might be paying.
 And the voters saw the wisdom in that as well. So again, I want to thank Commissioner Fish. I want to thank the city council. And I want to thank the public for supporting what we all believe to be a very sound improvement and a big step towards tax fairness. So thank you all for that. Now, before we jump into our usual testimony, I am compelled to read our statement on decorum. Some of you now know it by heart.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the Council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and the decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will make everybody feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe at the meeting, and to also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities during the meeting for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subject that they would like to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Carla is here today as our ABLE clerk.
 Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you do sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your full address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, that would be helpful to know as well.
 Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light in front of you on the little box there, it's going to light up and there'll be a beep. And then when your time is done, the red light lights up and there's a series of beeps. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting during counsel deliberations is not allowed.
 Personal attacks and insults levied against city and council staff, many of whom are required to testify as a condition of their employment, will not be tolerated. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting.
 Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespasses. If people would like to show their support, thumbs up. If you don't want to show your support, that's fine, thumbs down. But we just ask people not to be verbally expressive so we can keep things moving along. And so with that, Carla, please call the first communication. Thank you.
 Item 483, request of Kim Smith to address council regarding Greater Portland Sustainability Education Network. Good morning. Good morning.
 Yeah, why don't you do that? Since all three of you are speaking on the same subject, you each get three minutes, but why don't you come up at the same time? That would be great. I'll read the other two. 484, request of Alfredo Gonzalez to address council regarding greater Portland Sustainability Education Network. And 485, request of Ibrahim Ibrahim to address council regarding greater Portland Sustainability Education Network. And Jocelyn Gary.
 No show today. Okay, very good. Her grandfather is passing away, sadly. I'm sorry to hear that. So thank you very much for having us. My name is Kim Smith, and I'm the director of the Greater Portland Sustainability Education Network. And we would like to share with you our work as well as give some updates on some projects we've done over the last few years. We met in council with you in 2015, and obviously the commissioners wanted to give you an update. Okay.
 So understanding GIPSON itself, we are focused on the power of collective impact and wanting to make sure that we support collaboration across sectors. And in understanding the name, we're a network using sustainability education to create a greater Portland. All right? And so if you reference the annual report...
 that you have there for 2016. I just want to point out that we are an RCE, which means a Regional Center of Expertise on Education for Sustainable Development. The greater Portland region has been recognized as an RCE by the United Nations. In fact, we have some fellows here from Finland who have also been recognized. So that's nice to have international guests. So looking at the report, we've done a lot of progress in developing education and research.
 training opportunities, expanding our youth network and college networks, as well as outreach and media efforts to increase our public awareness campaigns, and a variety of events, trying to advance Portland's story around sustainability, as well as increasing opportunities for more folks to get engaged. So in looking through the report, as well as some future opportunities, we've received a lot of focus from other countries and other cities around the U.S.,
 And we're hoping that we can achieve more. And we recognize there are limits in capacity, limits in funding, but we'd love to have some greater support and some ideas on how to increase cross-sector collaboration to advance formal and community education.
 workforce training, and public awareness campaigns that address issues of sustainable development. So one of the events that's coming up, in the small handouts that I gave you, focus on World Environment Day. I don't know if you remember that Portland hosted World Environment Day in 2013.
 So we are going to be hosting a global goals fair. So the other handout you have are the sustainable development goals. So if you haven't been following Agenda 2030 or the sustainable development goals, this is an incredible effort for Portland to be highlighted. Countries around the world are trying to achieve these goals, and our focus is to think about what can we do on a regional level and on a local level to help advance those efforts.
 So this event is happening. We are going to be highlighting 17 groups focused on each of the goals that are doing great work in the region. So that's an invitation, of course, to attend, but also just to think about how can we align Portland initiatives and reporting structures so that we can tell the story at the state, national, and international level around these different 17 goals.
 So I look forward to working with you, and hopefully we'll have opportunities to achieve the goals together. I'm going to hand – I know in the order it was Alfredo, but we're going to have Ibrahim speak next on the Youth Network. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Ibrahim. My parents are immigrants from Sudan, and I'm the coordinator for the Gypsum High School Youth Network, and I'm a junior at Oregon Islamic Academy.
 The role of youth and local sustainability is an important one. And although Portland does harvest several opportunities for youth to get involved, those opportunities aren't advertised to them. And there are thousands of high school students in Portland public schools, but there aren't that many getting involved in sustainability opportunities. And so...
 What the Gypsum Youth Network does strive for is to get those students who aren't already involved, involved. And part of that means to communicate to Portland Public Schools what we're trying to do and for them to promote our initiatives to the students. Now beyond recruitment, what the Youth Network serves to do is promote sustainability education through the leadership of young people.
 We have accomplished a lot, including sending me to a global RCE conference in Indonesia to talk about our work here in Portland. But there's still a lot more that we can do. We do plan on partnering with other youth groups established under other organizations. We've actually started doing that already with World Affairs Council and Model UN. But we also want to get involved with local government.
 trying to address local sustainability issues along with the local government as high school students would serve as a method to incentivize other high school students who aren't already involved to get involved. They'd feel that their voices are being heard, that they're going to be empowered, and that they're important.
 And if current members will feel that way, they'll tell their friends to join the network. And that sort of expansion of the network would lead to more youth involvement in sustainability and beyond in Portland and hopefully across the United States. And that's the goal. And this helps, like I said, with recruitment and students getting involved in local sustainability programs.
 And that's all I have to say. Excellent. Thank you. I have a question. Have you reached out to the Multnomah Youth Commission? I have been in contact with them, and I've met with them a couple of times. And hopefully in the near future we'll be engaged in more conversation. Terrific. Thank you. Thank you. Can I just ask a question? Were you at the MET fundraiser on Saturday night? Yeah, we shook hands and we exchanged some words. Mayor, I had a chance to say a few words, and there were a lot of young people there, and I enjoyed it.
 I encourage the young people to go up to the adults in the room, get a card, and ask someone to open a door, be a mentor, provide a career path. And as I was leaving, one person came up to me, and it was this young man. That's great. So I appreciate that you took advantage of that, and Ascenta Lawrence is in the process of setting something up. Awesome. Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you.
 Good morning, everyone. My name is Alfredo Gonzalez Valenzuela, and I am originally from Peru. I'm here representing the Gypsum Network, but I also work for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 I'm a recent PSU graduate and I just wanted to touch a little bit on how the college network is an important piece of GIPSON. And it's made up really of different higher educational institutions. It happens to be Portland State, Portland Community College, University of Portland, Lewis and Clark, among other universities. And the points that I really wanted to touch on is how we engage communities of color.
 Mayor Wheeler, your enthusiasm to be able to reach these 100 renewable energy goals. And part of the reason why the CAP, the Climate Action Plan, was so successful is because we were able to engage communities of color in the planning process in how to reach these goals. So for me, it's really important to engage these communities as we move forward to the goals that we seek.
 And so in order to engage those residents, it's important to bring an international component that acknowledges the roots of people. So that is one of the strategies that we're working with with the college network is how we unify our strengths in order to accomplish these 17 goals.
 A second piece of that is how we support diverse students to get hired like myself into institutions and in the environmental workforce in general and retain them and promote them as well. And so for me it's very important to have a space where I'm able to meet people like Ibrahim and people that are also at PSU so that we collaborate and we share resources and mentor and support each other to move forward as a unit.
 that gets to the second piece, or the third piece, I mean, is how do we do this work beyond just Portland and how in the future people like me can learn all these things about sustainability that we really are not educated about in the...
 underdeveloped world and how people like me can go on to go to different countries, go back to Peru, for example, and move forward in sustainable development goals as well because it's a mutual collaboration that has to happen globally.
 So once again, thank you very much for your time, and I look forward to more collaboration in this type of work. We appreciate your coming in with this excellent testimony. I just want to comment that I think you're being hired as one of the missing pieces that we've been hoping for. We've had this presentation before in 2015, and yet there wasn't that much connection with city government.
 So although I support your desire to go back to Peru, I hope you'll just visit and then come back here because we really need you here. And having a young person or young people under Dr Smith's...
 guidance to further this work is something that I know that everyone on the council holds dear. So thank you very much for the work that you're doing. You're welcome. And Alfredo is on our board of directors, so we're having a lot of great leadership coming from across ages, across regions, and I'm grateful for his support, and thank you for that comment. Thank you. Congratulations on your success. We sure appreciate it. How many students are involved with Gibson? Well, across the whole region.
 Over 200 at least. But there's a whole big listserv that they get lots of different outreach and communication and cross-promotion, so it's hard to kind of count who's actually attending. When we have events, it's 30, 40 people. Is it mostly high school students? Yes.
 The college network, well, the youth network is a different number. But the college, yeah, we have both the college network and then as well as different professional. We have a think tank. So we have a lot of professionals that are doing research on that level. So each one has a different set of numbers. I'm sorry for not having that. That's okay. I'm just curious. What do you do for youth numbers? We have seven members for the high school network. But everyone has their own circle where we bring to events. So every event would have like 30, 40 people.
 I met with a fledgling district-wide high school-based environmental group yesterday. So I'm just wondering if there's an opportunity there. Yes. And we have a whole list of in connection. And you'll see on the.
 both handouts, the report, and the card. And it says to get involved, just go to gypsum.org. And feel free to send introductions, and we'll be sure to connect them with the right people. Thank you. Just have one more suggestion, and that is to reach out to Momentum Alliance, which is the new diversity and civic leadership group within the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement. And they have a lot of young people, particularly people of colour, who are interested in this.
 I see Alfredo nodding. So that would be a great connection for you. Thank you. Thank you. That'll teach you. You come in to testify, and we give you homework. That's perfect. Of course, we'd love to have retirees and people of all ages and expertise involved as well. So glad to have our youth with us, but want to also invite others to participate. Thank you so much for sharing your piece this morning. We appreciate it very much. And I understood that 486 is not here. Jocelyn Berry is not here, correct?
 Okay, very good. Next item, please, Carla. Thank you. Thank you. Item 487, request of Michael Jennings to address council regarding Portland City Manager's plan to force the closure of a world-famous art gallery. Good morning. Good morning.
 A Portland city contractor is planning a renovation that would force the eviction and closing of an extremely successful, world-class, block-long art gallery that sells the work of over 900 artists. The gallery is a major attraction in guidebooks sold in foreign countries, for example. Forcing the art gallery to close would make downtown Portland less attractive to shoppers.
 Here are some details of the plans for renovation of the 10th and Southwest Jam Hill Smart Park parking structure where the gallery is located. Every year for nine years, the city has threatened eviction of every tenant. Because of those threats, businesses didn't improve operations. That lowered the attractiveness of downtown Portland. The Portland Department of Transportation, the owner of the parking structure, has lost perhaps $2 million in lease fees today.
 Since eviction was planned in a few months every year, there has been a lower month-to-month rental. Evicting businesses discourages investment. The 10th and Yamhill parking structure needs renovations, but they must be planned and supervised by skilled Portland City managers concerned only with the best interest of the city. An unsupervised contractor may plan far more work than necessary.
 FFA Architecture and Interiors is the contractor. FFA is being paid $1.2 million to do the planning. During months of research, I've seen no evidence that FFA has the necessary ability to design renovations. I've given you my eight-page review of one example of FFA's plans. FFA's plans put RACC, the Regional Arts and Culture Council, in charge. You can see two examples of management plans.
 by RACC at the bottom of page two of the review I've given you. FFA's website shows little evidence that the company has done more than make small changes to existing buildings. The website shows poor choices, in my opinion. See FFADesign.com. FFA's plans would cause about 60 people to lose their jobs and over 900 artists to lose a place to sell their work.
 I'm hoping city managers will, A, find a knowledgeable manager for the renovation, somebody who works for the city and has the best interests of the city at heart. B, make all plans public. C, find ways to do the renovation a little at a time so that no tenant is evicted. I can provide more information. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your testimony.
 So it is my understanding, Carla, that the entire consent agenda has been pulled. Is that correct? No. 492, 497, and 499. 492, 497, and 499. Can you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda, please? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 The consent agenda is adopted. Give me one moment. Let me look at the items that we've pulled. We have a time. We can do the time service first. Yeah, that's my thinking, but let me check. $497, $497, $497. Okay, so let's do this. Let's go to item 488 first, please.
 488, revised transportation fees, rates, and charges for fiscal year 2017-18 and fix an effective date. Good morning. How are you today? Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. I'm Caitlin Reff, program development manager at PBOT. And I've been working with Christine Leon, development permitting and transit group manager and our bureau budget advisory committee on a comprehensive look at our annual fee update. We do this every year and today we're submitting PBOT's annual fee update ordinance. This ordinance is PBOT's annual update to transportation fees, rates and charges in accordance with city policy.
 This includes seven fee schedules, A through G, for parking, land use review, development and right-of-way construction, and use. Temporary street use, miscellaneous fees, regulatory, and right-of-way use enforcement. This ordinance makes adjustments to fee rates and charges that will be effective July 1st of 2017. And the revenue from these fees and adjustments are included in the mayor's proposed budget for the Bureau of Transportation.
 So I will focus on development, permitting, and transit group fees on schedules B, C, D, and G. And with me is Dave Benson, parking and regulatory group manager. He will focus on schedules A and F. The development review group of PBOT relies on a cost recovery model to carry out specific requests from customers in reviewing and providing permits. PBOT considered how incremental adjustments could be made for fees that are currently below a full cost recovery without creating significant spikes to customers.
 Some rate increases include caps, while others we have kept low, below full cost recovery, and are subsidized. For example, some community use fees and permits, as well as development early design assistance. For this year's update, and consistent with years past, we remain committed to Vision Zero and affordable housing objectives.
 To provide better service, there are a couple new fees for temporary street use and traffic control permitting. We're also very excited to be taking a closer look at permit compliance and permitted work in the right-of-way. To meet Vision Zero objectives, we have a new schedule for right-of-way use enforcement penalties, and we will be conducting outreach and education prior to phase implementation later in 2017.
 So the impact statement that you have provides a summary of highlighted changes, which I'm happy to elaborate on as needed. Christine Leon, as well as the DPT division managers, are here today if there are any program-specific questions. And now I'll let Dave Benson introduce the parking and regulatory schedules.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. I'm Dave Benson. I'm the Parking Services Group Manager at PBOT. And I'll give you just a high-level view of the changes we're recommending in Schedule A. You'll notice the meter districts, we're not recommending any meter rate changes for the meter district. I think later this year we're likely going to come back to you and recommend performance-based performance.
 pricing approach to setting meter rates. In the smart park garages, smart park, as you know, is six garages, about 4,000 parking spaces. We're making some nominal adjustments based upon occupancy.
 At the 10th and Yamhill Garage, we expect a little disruption during a construction project, so we're going to lower the rate by $1. Third and Alder and fourth and Yamhill, we're just raising $1. These are the day rates. And O'Brien Square are raising day rates. Again, these are based upon occupancy.
 The reduced rate swing shift program, I remember we implemented that last year. It provides parking for people of modest incomes that work in the afternoons.
 In downtown, we sold only 40 passes as of March of this year, so the involvement or participation in that program has been fairly modest. So could you please do some outreach and see if you changed the hours, if that would make any difference? Well, Commissioner Fritz, the hours for the program are set partly due to occupancy. The garages between 7 a.m. and 3 p.m. are very, very full.
 The focus of all the smart parks is short-term parkers, so it would be hard to accommodate more parkers earlier if that's what we're getting at. Well, if I'm remembering correctly, the lower rate starts at 3 o'clock, is that right? Yes. If it could start at 2.30, that way people who are going to work 3 to 11 could use it. We could certainly look at that. That's a standard swing shift, and I think that's the point. You can't be late every day because you have to get to parking. We'll be happy to look at that.
 The area parking permit program, we charge a cost recovery model of $60 to produce an area parking permit. We issued almost 40,000 parking permits last year. In future years, we may want to approach it as a management tool and may be coming back to council to request a rate increase. But for right now, we're going to leave it in place. On Exhibit F, the towing rate,
 These are only service fees returned to the city. These aren't the rates the towers charge. We're recommending implementing a $9 derelict RV fee for all tows. The three commissioners that were with us last year, last November, may recall that
 Council gave us $150,000 of general fund dollars to recycle derelict RVs. As you know, our RVs actually have virtually no scrap value. In fact, it costs about $900 to recycle them.
 And so when we're pulling through the abandoned auto program derelict RVs off the street, we run them through a recycling program at city expense rather than coming back to council with, you know, continuing requests for general fund dollars. We thought we'd recommend adding this derelict RV fee and so we could continue the program going forward. Thank you.
 I've also included some service fees. The number of tows that we oversee is doubled. Just the abandoned auto tows and requests that we see has quadrupled in four years. We have one person that manages the towing program, so we added some service fees in there for administrative costs so we could hire somebody else. Thank you.
 And that's all I have for you, and I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. I just had one question, and it's really a timing question. So you're bringing these potential fee adjustments to us based on the proposed budget in anticipation of us actually approving the budget at the rates –
 are given the levels of expenditure that we've proposed. What if things change? Do we have the opportunity between first and second reading to adjust that, or what usually happens? For example, let me just give you a concrete example. Generally, council doesn't adjust. We come to council every year, but always council certainly has the right to revisit this. You mentioned Vision Zero, for example.
 And I could see a scenario whereby a commissioner might say, okay, I like what's in the proposed around Vision Zero, but I'd really like to see more go to Vision Zero. Wouldn't that affect some of the fees that have been proposed around the support of Vision Zero? I think that we would have to look at it on a specific basis for each fees because there's quite a bit that's included in each schedule. But we would definitely be able to revisit before adoption. Okay.
 Okay. Yeah, I was just curious. Having not gone through this process, it just struck me as a little premature to settle in on the fee structure before we've actually approved the budget. But that makes perfect sense, Caitlin. Thank you. Mayor, I have a question if I could. I don't know who to direct this to, but could we turn to Exhibit E for a second? There's a lot of documents here, a lot of fees. So this is Exhibit E is other transportation fees, and it includes film and video fees.
 And I just want to note that you're not proposing any increases in those fees. Two questions. One is, when you set those fees annually, do you actually do that in concert with the film industry? Or how do we set these rates? I think you picked a fee that is a bit more obscure. Do you want to answer that? I'll tell you what, I don't need an answer today. I'd be happy with a follow-up. Because the second part of my question was,
 The mayor has proposed a budget note, which we're going to approve, that directs the city budget office to take a look at the Office of Film and to come up with some recommendations for how to put it on sustainable funding going forward.
 And one of the things we'll be looking at is what fees are generated by that office and how might some of those fees support the work of the office. So I guess two questions, but I'm happy to get an email. One is how do we set these fees? And number two is what do these fees bring in annually? And if I could see, like, over the last three years just the amount that these fees come in. And these are the fees –
 that we charge when a film wants to shoot and they need to park their vehicles at a site. And I'm told by people that do film here that it is one of our competitive advantages in that we provide this concierge service, and they're very complimentary of the service they get from both PBOT and from the Police Bureau. So thank you for that. But if I could just get a follow-up response. Thank you. Thank you.
 I have a question. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I'm always interested in the daily maximums. And given we just had some testimony under citizen communications about the 10th and Yamhill garage, it looks like that's the only one that's actually going down for daily maximum from $13 to $12. All the other three are staying the same or going up $1. Wow.
 Why is that change happening? The Tenth and Yamhill Garage, the occupancy right now based upon six-month average data is running about 78%. Our target is 85%.
 So we know that when occupancy is a little bit lower, we can adjust occupancy with pricing. I will also offer that the Downtown Retail Council, our partner in this, thinks that our rates are perhaps too low and would have argued that we should just hold the line on the rates at Tenth and Yamhill. But because of the occupancy and because we're looking at construction over the next year,
 year, we thought we'd lower them a dollar a day to see if we can move occupancy up a little bit. So what's going to happen when they are doing the construction? Will the whole garage be closed? No. There will be some floors closed at various times, but our goal is to keep as much parking available as we can to really limit the disruption.
 Well, you might want to reconsider that particular one because it's right next to the target and very much in the heart of the retail core. And so, again, if we could get the low-income parking starting at 230 or even 245, that might take care of some of your occupancy problem. So just something to consider, please. Okay, thank you. Great. Commissioner Daly. I also have a question. Exhibit A area, parking.
 Parking programs? Mm-hmm. Can you tell me where zones G and N are by any chance? Central East Side. It is. And that's a significant increase, like a 60% increase. Right. Are we concerned at all about low-income residents not being able to afford those permits?
 So the Area Parking Permit Program has two components. It is a community-driven program. There is an underlying charge of $60 that I mentioned. It's our administrative cost to actually produce a permit. The surcharges are actually recommended by the community, and
 the neighborhood community and they use those surcharge dollars, what we call surcharge dollars, those excess dollars for transportation safety projects in their area. For instance, they use them to reduce the cost of transit passes. On the central east side, they're looking at providing streetcar passes with these dollars.
 So, yes, it is a significant rate increase, but I don't want to speak for them, but I know their goal is to have permits more reflect the value of the actual parking. I mean, when we're talking about $200 to $300, that's for an entire year. So that's a relatively inexpensive cost, and that's been their goal.
 And what body is making these recommendations? You said it's coming from the community. They have a TPAC or they have a Central East Side has a neighborhood committee, and they make these recommendations about adjusting these surcharges. The same one that Northwest, you may have heard about, they want to charge $180. Again, our underlying charge is $60. The additional over that, the community actually directs for transportation demand management.
 Well, is there any accommodation or recourse for low-income residents? They can set up monthly payments or they can get a discounted pass? Yes, I know in Northwest they've addressed this issue and they've worked on this. I can't speak specifically to Central Eastside, but I can certainly provide you information about that. I'd appreciate that. I don't want to set up low-income residents for...
 not being able to afford the pass and then being penalized for parking without the pass. And I don't want to exacerbate the ongoing displacement of our residents in the Central East Side. Okay. Public testimony? Yes, we have three people signed up. Very good. If you guys could just cool your heels for a bit. Thanks. Joe Walsh, Robert West, and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Yay. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Anytime one of your staff come here with a report and they don't have the information that they should have, you should stop everything. The other thing that we object to is the ongoing fines against disabled people. We would like to know...
 How many disabled people have been forced into court in their wheelchairs, in their crutches, because they got a ticket for all the parking? Because at one time, not too long ago, they could park for free. But you took that away because you're so damn interested in money. It's all money about you millionaires up there. By the way, would anybody that's not a millionaire up there raise their hand?
 I didn't think so. Seriously. I know you are. What's the other one? I'm not sure about Commissioner Fish. Mr. Walsh, please keep your testimony on point. The parking, when you have one of your stats in here and say $300 is not so much, it's over a year's period. He makes $100,000 a year, and you are millionaires.
 So it makes no difference to you. You just screw the citizens over and over and over again until they run you out of office. And that's what's happening. You don't understand what's happening. But you will, Salvin. You will, Fish. Check on employment. It's not very high. Good morning.
 Well, I guess I'll speak now. My name is Robert West. I'm with Film the Police 911. And I'm really concerned about your fees because I'm alternative media. I'm also on disability. And to go get a media pass, it costs over $540. $540.
 and that's only in a short period of time, and I don't have that kind of money usually, so I don't get a media pass. I also got arthritis in my back, and I'm classified as disabled. And yeah, you guys took away the downtown parking, so now I've got to park across the river and walk across the bridge. The other thing that I'm concerned about is there's not too much disabled parking along the waterfront area. So the people that work over there
 park in the hour, two-hour spots and leave the zone's G spots wide open. So if someone that's disabled wants to go to OMSI or something, when they get back, there's a ticket on their car. But someone that's working over there, there's no tickets on their cars. And that's wrong.
 you know, you guys need to fix what you have. Either give the disabled people free parking like you did before. Now you've got paid parking up by the hospital.
 And I think that's totally ridiculous to put paid parking where people are going to go in and see their loved ones. They can't park in the garage because that's for patient and workers only. And they charge a huge fee to park in their garage. So somewhere along the way, the city council has to stop with their thing of being so greedy and say, hey, we've got to do something for the public. Right.
 Okay, pull those meters, pull those paid parkings over by the hospital. The other thing is allow the disabled to park downtown without worrying about a ticket. And also reduce your media pass for disabled people and people that are not Channel 6. Channel 6 can afford those media passes like you can afford a candy bar.
 But disabled and low-income people can't afford those media passes, and they're getting tickets, and that's wrong. It's wrong to watch someone in a wheelchair or disabled go in because they got a parking ticket, because someone that's working wants to park where in front of their business, or their car's too long in a certain spot and they're on crutches and can't get to their car in time.
 That stuff needs to be worked out before you say, okay, yeah, we'll grant all these fees and stuff like that. Because these fees affect people. They affect low-income people. They affect residents. I mean, what are you going to do? They're already starting to put them in residential neighborhoods. Are you going to tell people they can't park in front of their house without paying a fee? That's ridiculous, right?
 That's not the way the taxpayers want it. That's not the way our founding fathers founded this country. It's all about the big buck. How can the city make the money off the people? And that is wrong. You're trying to push the low income out of the city of Portland. All right, thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And it's interesting that Ms. Fritz talked about the –
 swing shift people just last night i was at a business that was closing and uh people who aren't making 15 an hour working in the service industry here um their real wage goes even lower when they have to pay an hour's wage to park for their seven hour shift or people get 30 hours spread over six days a week it's you know something that we still have a ways to go as a society the other thing that uh i guess you just gotta get used to is uh
 it would be impossible to discuss the not so smart park structure between yam hill and morrison at 10th without remembering that we killed karen batts the karen batsman royal parking garage which does have a really cool shop with a lot of menorahs i never really thought of it was a as a world-class gallery but i'm not uh i'm not really in the rack pam crowd uh but uh the one thing that i think you can take away from what you've heard from the other two testifiers is that
 perhaps we're not interfacing well enough with our own structures. Just last week we had the big talk about advisory boards and committees and there's been a lot of mention of disabled people, but there's nothing in here where PCOD has had a chance to voice itself. I guess maybe when Commissioner Novick was here and we changed the way we do disabled parking downtown, maybe they feel like they had adequate voice input, but I don't think we're getting...
 real equity here. And part of that is just a screwed up Americanism. Our fees, fines, and stuff, we punish people that make $11 an hour the same as we punish people who bill $1,100 an hour. And the city needs to move towards structures that really take that into consideration. Fines that are income-based rather than...
 simple, straight, stripped-free fine. So I hope that during the next three years of your administration, Mayor Wheeler, we can have some progress towards that. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Just so you know, the Commission on Disability supported the changes on disabled parking, and we haven't heard that that's not working out from them. So I would let them speak for themselves if they need to. Thanks, Mr. Fritz.
 And the – excuse me. I would also add to that. I think since it's been about six months to a year since those changes were made, it would be appropriate from time to time to review that policy and see how it's working out. So I appreciate the testimony. One more individual. Yes, sir. He did sign up on time. Richard White. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I appreciate the time. I wanted to just raise an issue. Put your name in the record, sir. I'm sorry? Put your name in the record. I'm sorry. My name is Richard White. I just wanted to raise a quick issue regarding a fee that was mentioned in some of the exhibits. I believe it was Exhibit C, but not changed or specifically addressed today. That fee is the, I believe it's the Land Use Transportation Infrastructure Charge, or the LTIC.
 It applies in a very, very broad manner throughout the city of Portland. And it directly targets individuals who are looking to develop property, build a home, maybe enhance their home. And what it does is the application of this fee can be prohibitive in any sort of development by someone who is...
 an individual looking to build or improve their own home. It's one thing when you're a large developer and having to pay these infrastructure charges that are coming in. It's another thing when you're one person trying to just build your home in an affordable way. Um...
 And again, while we didn't get into the specifics of it today, $600 a square foot for road frontage can be very prohibitive, particularly when you're talking about the outskirts of the city of Portland. It's one thing when you're in the grid and you've got a limited road frontage. It's another thing when you're out in a more rural area.
 and have a much more expansive road frontage. So I just wanted to raise this to your attention now. Hopefully we can continue the dialogue and continue looking at how we want to address this. Because another particularly cumbersome point in this is that there's no appeals process to it. There's no waivers. So it's either if the fee applies to you, you're paying the whole thing regardless of situation,
 circumstance or anything else. And when you're talking about a fee before any sort of permitting fee that's directly related to the development that you're trying to put in, again, you're kind of getting hit both ways before you're even able to start focusing on the cost of the home itself. Very good. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony. Any further board comments or discussion? Hearing none, this is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. Next item, please.
 Item 489, appoint Andreas Oswald to the Planning and Sustainability Commission Youth Position for a term to expire May 31, 2019. So, colleagues, about a month ago, we reappointed five members of the Planning and Sustainability Commission to new four-year terms. And today, we have the opportunity to appoint for the Youth Position on the Commission, which is a two-year term, and we have the opportunity to appoint for the Youth Position on the Commission, which is a two-year term,
 Andre Oswald is my recommendation for this position. If confirmed, he'll be the second youth commissioner to serve on the Planning and Sustainability Commission. For further introduction, I'll turn it over to Susan. Thank you, Andrew. Good morning, Mayor. Council, Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We're really excited to have Andre Oswald.
 join the Planning and Sustainability Commission as our next youth commissioner. The youth position is a two-year term, so we rotate that every two years instead of four, and it's for someone who is between the ages of 18 and 25. Andres, there was quite a number of students.
 students and people from the community between the ages of 18 and 25 that applied for this. Andres has a bachelor's degree in politics and next month will complete his master's degree in urban and regional planning at Portland State. He's been very active in the community working in the St. John's neighborhood. He worked to some degree with the Housing Bureau for a while and he's been working mobilizing low-income people and others in Vancouver looking at the planning process. As
 Many of you know the Planning and Sustainability Commission is a group of 11 individuals. They volunteer literally hundreds of hours each year. And unlike traditional planning commissions from around the country, our commission has people on it that have more than development experience. Many of them have experience and knowledge of public health, environmental issues, etc.
 climate change, housing, transportation and other issues. And we did that several years ago to broaden the scope so that we're not just looking at development, but we're looking at the impacts on people.
 So the position that Andres fulfilled brings a perspective on youth. Some of you met Maggie Talmadge. She was our youth commissioner over the past few years. She grew into an individual who has much experience and a lot of depth, and we're really, really excited to have Andres join us on the commission, and I know you will enjoy working with him. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. And welcome. It's good to see you again. Thank you. Yes, nice to see you. I'm really grateful for this opportunity. Having the opportunity to do work in planning and what's currently happening in Portland is amazing for me, but I was really motivated to the commission to further the work the city's doing around equity, to look at how we can work towards making sure the plans we create are implemented and accountability is present. But I think more than anything, what I'm really interested in
 is, as I've learned more about it, finding ways to bring in a transition from just community outreach to having community ownership of plans and to empowering and building capacity of people. So we're not just asking people for input, but seeing how we can work with them so that they can have a voice that's heard at the table.
 Thank you. We appreciate it. We appreciate your willingness to step up and participate. It's fantastic. Dr. Anderson, I just have a question. So is Margaret Talmadge now reappointed in another capacity, or is she moving off the commission? She's moved off the commission now, and it's time for her regular job finally. There you go. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any other comments before we move to testimony? Commissioner Fritz. This is a voting position, right? Yes.
 Because I know that with the school board, there was a youth person who voted, but it didn't count. But this one is included in the two, right? This is one.
 But we have two positions? I thought you said we have two youth positions. No, it's for a two-year term instead of four years to give more people an opportunity to be in this position. It's really a great way for youth who are predominantly in college to be able to take a next step into the kinds of things that they want to work on. Yeah, I created that confusion because Andres is the second youth commissioner that we've had. But the first is now moving off, and he's coming on.
 That was my confusion. Sorry. Mayor and Director, you might want to think about having more than one, because I remember when I was appointed to the Planning Commission as kind of the only neighbourhood environmentalist activist, it felt pretty lonely. And so having two or even three folks...
 for a particular point of view might be more comfortable because I think in addition to the work that Commissioner Fish is doing on transparency and accountability, I'm going to be working on how do we help and support new member supports and commissions, and one way is to make sure that they're not the only new person or the only one of any particular group. So just something to think about.
 Can I ask one other question? I just concluded service on the search committee for the new director of the Hatfield School, so I got to be reacquainted with some of the folks at the College of Urban and Public Affairs. And in the write-up it says you're completing your master's degree in urban and regional planning at PSU. What has been your particular interest? Thank you.
 I came in to do equity planning, and being in Portland, kind of the most pressing need ended up being housing. So my formal specialization has been land use, but in it really looking at how we can bring equity to land use, and most recently focusing on housing, specifically housing policy, and how policy can be used to address the housing needs of the community. Terrific. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes. One person, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Very good.
 Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And Commissioner Amanda Fritz has sort of seized my idea. And it's something, though, that I think needs even more discussion. Planning and sustainability, I mean, other than education, you can't have a more...
 youth-based issue. I think, you know, in a global context, we should draw, you know, parallels to the, in my personal opinion, the idiocy of the Brexit, where the people that made the passing margin for the Brexit vote will be dead, dead from old age, when Brexit is actually implemented. So...
 you know, planning and sustainability, even though we have entrenched institutions and procedures, the more youthful people with more life ahead of them that we can put on citizen committees, the better we'll be able to adapt to a fast-paced changing world and have youth advocate for situations because they're going to be living in a climate-stressed world. They're going to be dealing with
 Not so much flooding here, but, fam, we don't know what trees, for example, are going to be dead and unsustainable here because of climate changes. So as you recruit, thank you for the selection, Mayor, but also think about the whole structure as we go through this review. I know it's a little bit more in Commissioner Fritz's basket of...
 scope of who's serving rather than what Commissioner Fritz and I will be working on as far as knowing who we've got serving now. But definitely this is an impressive move. Somebody has to say MERP though, Masters of Urban and Regional. Let's have a MERP. He's going to get a MERP. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh from the Reckon Representing Individuals for JETJET. We would like to... JETJET, turn it on. Thank you.
 Once again, my name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. I'd like to take the opportunity to congratulate the appointee. We love volunteers. We like the idea of volunteers coming here.
 So the people of Portland can learn a little bit about them. We don't like it when you just appoint volunteers and nobody knows who's on the commission. And we suspect the commissions are just rubber stamps for you guys. So when you say the commission or the committee has endorsed this thing, it means almost nothing to us.
 So when you bring them in and you introduce them and we get to know them, maybe we'll change our minds, which would be a good thing. So once again, we would like to congratulate the volunteers. We don't like the system that's in what's going on now unless you continue bringing the volunteers in and introduce us.
 Takes a few minutes. Let's then be honored. We will cheer them. We like volunteers. We almost never go after volunteers. If you're elected, yes, we go after you. If you volunteer your time...
 We think that whatever your beliefs are, even if they're different than mine or our organization, you deserve credit because that's being a citizen. You come and you look at your politicians and say, I like what you're doing. Or in our case, most of the time, we don't like what you're doing.
 Either way, it's important that we get to know each other. And the volunteers, even though they're given their time and their effort to go to these meetings in the beginning, should come here. You should give their resume, like we learned about this young man this morning, which is impressive. Going after his master's degree. I like that.
 So again, congratulations on this one. And please continue it when you appoint. And all of you leaders in your own little right, in your own little bureaus, please do that. If you appoint somebody, bring them in and introduce them.
 Maybe we'll buy them a mocha. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, I'll just speak for myself. My policy is I ask the volunteers, would they like to take time off work to come in and be recognized? If the answer is yes, then we have it on the regular agenda. If the answer is I'm sorry, I can't be there, then we put it on consent with the information that you've requested.
 Okay, would you speak a little bit slower? Say that again, Amanda. I didn't get it. My policy is when we're appointing somebody to a board or commission that I'm in charge of, we ask the volunteer, would you like to come into council? Can you take time off work to do that? If the answer is yes, then I put it on the regular agenda. If it's no, we put it on consent, and we have the information about that person in the documents filed for council. That's reasonable.
 You know, we can be reasonable and disagree, but in this case we're reasonable and we agree. If the volunteer doesn't want to come in and you want to give some kind of information about the volunteer, that's cool. I think the citizens of Portland have a right to understand who's on these committees. So when you say to me, well, the committee said it's okay, I have some understanding who's on that committee. If I don't know who's on a committee, that means nothing to me.
 Great. Thank you. Appreciate it. I'll entertain a motion. I move the report. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz second. Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you for your willingness to serve, and we look forward to working with you as we move forward. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Well, thank you, Andreas, for your willingness to serve. But I also really want to give a shout-out to Maggie Talmadge, who did an exceptional role. In fact, I'm surprised to hear she was the youth commissioner because she's so sophisticated and mature. But she did a great job on the planning commission, and we really thank her, and I appreciate her untiring advocacy for adopting the inclusionary housing policy that this council adopted. So thank you, Maggie, and welcome, Andreas. Hi. Eudaly? Eudaly?
 Congratulations, Andreas. Aye. Fritz. Well, Mr. Oswald, since three of my colleagues have already voted yes, I will say thank you, Commissioner Oswald, for your willingness to serve. Aye.
 Wheeler. I think this is a fantastic appointment, Andres. You heard what people said. They're thrilled to have you. You have exceptional skills. We're very delighted to have you on board the commission. And I think we would absolutely entertain any comments you have about the composition of the commission as well as you go forward and you learn a little bit more and you have a chance to evaluate it for yourself. I'd appreciate that feedback. So thank you. Congratulations. I vote aye. The appointment's approved. Thank you.
 Um, let's do four, uh, let's move to 490 and then, um, Mike, do you, do you have a few minutes, Mike? How's your schedule? Okay, very good. So let's, very good. Let's go ahead and move to 490, please. 490 Deconstruction Program Six-Month Status Report.
 Very good. BPS is here this morning to report on the six-month status of the deconstruction program, which was required by the deconstruction ordinance that was put in place by the city council last October.
 Two years ago, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability convened an advisory group that included, amongst others, neighborhood activists, home builders, historic preservationists, deconstruction contractors, and salvage retailers. The group was put together to recommend ways to advance deconstruction and material reuse as an alternative to material demolition and then, of course, shipping everything off to the landfill.
 After providing incentives and technical assistance for several years, the city began to require deconstruction for homes over 100 years old that were slated for demolition. What started as a small grant program has evolved substantially into a first-in-the-nation requirement.
 and it's a requirement that is having a very positive impact on the community. This deconstruction requirement is an important part of Portland's leadership on reducing carbon emissions and landfill waste.
 It's also helping to inspire other jurisdictions across the country to consider similar approaches to the one that we've adopted here. In fact, Portland was selected to host a national deconstruction and reuse conference this fall due to our groundbreaking policies and the people who helped provide the leadership behind them. So we're going to hear from BPS leadership today, and then it's my understanding we have –
 four people testifying following your presentation. Is that correct? Correct, yes. Very good. Thank you and welcome. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Elisa Kane. I'm the Green Building Manager. I'm joined here with my colleague, Sean Wood, from Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 As the Mayor mentioned, last October, Portland became the first city in the nation to require deconstruction instead of mechanical demolition for select projects. This policy is helping us reduce waste and keep Portland's history out of the landfill, cut carbon emissions, mitigate health hazards, and spur economic development. Thank you.
 Being first in the nation means we had a very big puzzle to put together, and we wanted to be able to come back here six months into it and share all our successes to date. The report you have in front of you goes into much greater detail, but we're going to provide some of the highlights today. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Sean Wood. I'm the construction waste specialist for the Bureau. I also administer the deconstruction program.
 Just as a refresher, the deconstruction ordinance requires that houses or duplexes built in 1916 or earlier or designated historic regardless of age must be deconstructed when they come in for a demolition permit. The year 1916 was chosen primarily because in the years leading up to the ordinance it represented one-third of demolitions.
 So that was a significant amount of house demolitions, but it was chosen as the right threshold that we could both advance the industry, but at the same time not overwhelm them. So I think the last time we were here, we used the term bold but balanced, and I think that we struck a good chord.
 Since the ordinance went into effect in October, we've had 34 demolition permits that have been subject to the deconstruction requirements. Two of those, BPS determined, were exempt. So we do have exemptions for hazardous structures or ones that represent very limited reuse. So, for example, we had one that suffered from pretty extensive fire damage. So that one was determined exempt. Okay.
 As I said, in the past, 1916 or earlier, that year built threshold has represented 33% of demolitions. To date, it represents 21%. Part of that may just be we're not through a full annual cycle with the permits. There could be some market reaction to that. It's kind of unknown to us at this point, but it is down 21% for that sector of demolitions.
 We've had 11 projects completed so far. The remainder of those are in the...
 permit pipeline, but 11 have physically come down. And to date, just adding up all the lumber that has been salvaged from those projects alone equates to over six and a half miles of lumber. And for equivalency, that's the distance from City Hall to the airport. So imagine two by fours, two by sixes, flooring all stacked end to end. We've salvaged that much material already.
 There's also some noteworthy advances in the industry. To date, when the ordinance first got passed in July of last year, we knew we'd have to have additional folks on the ground to do this work since we were going to be having more deconstruction projects. So we held a deconstruction contractor training later in July after the ordinance passed.
 And that particular training was a hands-on three-day training at a live deconstruction site. We had 16 participants at that contractor training representing 12 different companies. Ten of those companies were minority women-owned and emerging small business, or MWESB-certified firms, that participate in the city's prime contractor development program.
 When we first kicked off the ordinance in October, we had seven certified deconstruction contractors. So, again, as a reminder, any of these projects that are subject to requirements have to be taken down by a certified contractor. So we had seven when we first kicked off the ordinance. To date, we have 12 certified deconstruction contractors. There's a 13th in the wings that will probably be certified here within the next month.
 Two of the companies that ended up getting certified became companies because of this ordinance. So they are brand new companies and they're competing in the marketplace and succeeding, but it's because of this ordinance that they're even here.
 And there have also been a number of different salvage retail facilities that have opened up over the last year. And even one of the new contractors is opening up a facility to complement their work. So some pretty exciting advances so far.
 So ensuring that there were enough firms to do the work was critical, but also important was that there was enough workforce to be able to serve those firms. And in March of this year, we hosted a 12-and-a-half-day training for workforce development specifically. It was at four active deconstruction sites. And with sponsorship from Metro and DEQ, BPS partnered with Earth Advantage and local pre-apprentice programs and nonprofits to recruit candidates for the training.
 Our goal, as stated in the original ordinance, was to prioritize participation by women, people of color, and other groups disadvantaged in the construction industry. The result of this training was quite admirable, and we had a very diverse crew, and with the help of Oregon Tradeswomen in particular, we had more than half of them were women. That's great. That's very good. You'll hear from a few of them today, actually. Good.
 So with Council's acceptance of this report, BPS recommends that we continue to monitor the program. And assuming continued success, we would return to Council in fall with an ordinance to raise the year-built threshold from 1916 to 1926. That would essentially cover about half of all house demolitions. So again, in the past, it's been 33%.
 Currently it's 21%. If we went to 1926, it would be about 55%, so let's dial it back to approximately half. And that would become effective January 1st of 2018. So looking at starting this off on a calendar year, I think just administratively that will be easier. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question. Please, Commissioner Daly. I understand part of the decision to set that 100-year –
 Mark, was a matter of capacity of the existing industry to take down those homes. And I also understand that the closer we get to World War II, I think the less valuable the materials become. But the 10-year advance, approximately six months from now, seems small. Could you...
 speak to that? Like, why not be a little more aggressive on the dates and the timeline? Sure. Yeah, I like analogies and sometimes I get them right and sometimes I don't, but I think
 Right now we're at 21%, so I don't think we've seen the full impact of the ordinance. So I kind of liken it to turning on a hot water tap and you kind of have to wait for the hot water to show up. I think we may still be waiting for that.
 Coming back in fall, we'll have a better idea about the full impact of this first step. I'm very confident in our workforce that we have right now to physically take down these buildings. I think we could take down more and be more aggressive in that sense. The question mark, and again going back to the fact that only 11 of these have physically come down,
 We don't know the full impact on the marketplace. Right. So the risk in moving faster is, yes, we could take them down in a timely manner, but is there the infrastructure to accept that material and sell it? Is there enough demand? So there is no right answer, I think. That was my second piece of the question, because I have heard from Rebuilding Center that pushing it out to consumers –
 is a challenge, and I've also received a request or suggestion that we come up with some kind of one-stop drop for these materials to be then kind of redistributed out. Any thoughts on that? From where I sit, demand remains strong for these materials. I mean, the fact that we've had new stores opening, Habitat is opening another new store here in the next year. The
 It's just we haven't seen the full impact of this first step is where we're at right now. Okay. Thank you. And Stephen, the Executive Director of the Rebuilding Center, will be speaking next. Oh, great. To be able to answer that. I can see him. Yes. I would just like to support Commissioner Daly's point. I think when we talked about this before, the Great Depression was kind of the cutoff when all the lovely things weren't.
 were not put into buildings anymore. So even if it was another five years, that would be something that would be helpful. Just thinking about it. Thank you. And we do have a goal of getting to 1941 by 2019, so we do see these as a series of steps working to at least 1941, and then re-evaluate and go from there. Very good. And did you have a particular order for testimony from your invited guests?
 If you'd like to start with Stephen, and then the order, it comes from there. Okay, Emily, Ryan, and then Savannah. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good work. And your analogy landed fine. That was good. It was good. Well done. Stephen, good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Stephen Reichert. I serve as the Executive Director of the Rebuilding Center.
 I've had the opportunity to meet directly with a number of you to give you an update on the deconstruction ordinance. So as many of you know, six months in, we consider it to be a positive. While we've only generated a few more proposals this year than we had at this time last year, we're seeing more requests for whole house deconstructions. We're currently booked out about two months.
 And while this may seem a long time for some contractors who are new to the deconstruction opportunity, at this time of year, which is our busy season, it's fairly normal. And frankly, when it gets less than a month, we begin to worry about the possibility of having to do layoffs in the future. So we're just about where we want to be. We have two active crews currently, and we've hired two new deconstructionists, and we hope to add a third, which will allow us to add a third crew later.
 There continues to be strong demand for materials, and in fact, April was our strongest retail month since October of 2014. Last February, when City Council approved the ordinance initially, we promised you that the ordinance would reduce materials to the landfill, reduce the amount of hazardous materials in the atmosphere, and that we would hire with an equity lens in mind. And I'm happy to report to you that we are accomplishing all of these objectives. We were very pleased to be involved in recruiting trainees to the City-sponsored deconstruction training in March.
 At our suggestion, the city and metro provided stipends to the trainees, which we believe to be the best practice. In the event of the 15 trainees who participated in the 12-day training, every single one was from a priority population, a woman, a person of color, or someone who was formerly incarcerated.
 We hired two of these trainees, hope to hire one more, and indeed as part of our work with a new coalition called the Green Workforce Initiative that includes SEI, the Blueprint Foundation, and Ecotrust, we are tentatively scheduled to conduct a two-week deconstruction training at Grant High School as part of the remodeling of Grant High School. So pretty exciting stuff.
 The ordinance has put Portland on the map of the reuse world, and we will be hosting the biannual meeting of the Business Materials Reuse Association in September. For our part, the Rebuilding Center will be presenting on how reuse can be used to build equitable and sustainable community. It's a great opportunity for our city to showcase just how great WEIRD can be.
 So in conclusion, let me just say this. We believe the implementation to date has been successful. We are ready and able to take another bite of the apple. 1926 seems like a good compromise, and with your support, we are confident that we can continue to bring these houses down in a timely manner, further reducing waste to the landfill, hazardous waste in the air, while creating meaningful living wage jobs for marginalized communities. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate it. Please, Commissioner Frisch. Commissioner, you daily alluded to the idea of a one-stop business.
 drop-off place. And I want to just put it in context. We sold our house last year and have really dramatically reduced our footprint. And so a lot of the stuff we had, we wanted to donate.
 And under the current system, you know, you look at the sort of reuse Portland family, and you decide where you want to give things. And community warehouse is a family favorite, so you're arranged to have furniture and, you know, things like that. Then we have books, garden equipment, all kinds of things. My sense is that it's already stressful enough to buy a home or sell a home generally. And if there's some way to create a more unified system,
 It will also cut down on unnecessary vehicle trips of scheduling different people to do pickups and deliveries. And I don't know, Stephen, in the short term whether it's finding a place where you could take everything or whether it's maybe quarantining.
 coordinating pickup in a way that you could do one call and someone could pick up lots of different kinds of things and then sort it. But I think the more we rationalize that and make it easier for people, the more the system's going to work. And, you know, it wasn't until we did all that work
 a number of years ago around reuse, PDX, and other things, until I understood the breadth of the related industries. And, you know, a number of them are on MLK now, and a number of them in other places, clustered. But I, having gone through the experience of,
 of closing down a home and relocating. The more convenient we make it, we'll have, I think, a number of goals, more participation, less vehicle travel, miles. So I'm very interested in this concept that Chloe talked about, about a one-stop place to drop stuff. But in the short term, I would welcome one pickup that allows you to have, that sort of sorts out all your stuff and helps you do that. And I look forward to working with both of you on that. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you. If Emily, Ryan, and Savannah want to come up together, there's plenty of room at the same time. Thank you. Good morning. I don't know who wants to go first. Please go ahead. I'm happy to go first. Please. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Emily Christensen. I'm speaking on behalf of Goodwood Deconstruction and Salvage. We are one of the businesses that responded to the ordinance. We actually were...
 driving home from doing a deconstruction in Hillsboro and heard it on the radio. And we were just doing a personal deconstruction to salvage material for a backyard studio. And we're enjoying the process so much that our ears were attuned to the information and
 We were so excited that here was an opportunity to participate in an industry that otherwise would be so foreign, so beyond us. So we formed a crew and became certified, and now we're on our fourth house since November, and we're a thriving business. Excellent. That's great news. Thank you. Mm-hmm.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and board of commissioners. My name is Ryan Harrelson. I'm here representing Northwest Deconstruction Specialist. I guess my take on the whole deal as far as experience goes, everything's been positive, to sum it up in one word. You know, it's really positive.
 originally from Kansas City, Missouri, breadbasket, Bible belt of this country. We have a lot of buildings coming down consistently, and there's a lot of work there, so
 when I heard about this program similar to you my ears being attuned to a person that always has to be resourceful most likely about materials and usage of space it really it just clicked with me so I had a great time with the programming met a lot of cool people there was a really diverse crew of folks that I got to meet and work with and from there I received plenty of job offers which was great I would say
 It was really, really a valuable opportunity for me and continues to be so. All of the job opportunities are really difficult to decide.
 where, you know, to work because it was just quality opportunities being offered, in which is, for me, I know I have the ability. I'm a college graduate. I have a lot of different skills, work with a lot of different people, and it always seems to come down to this unknown of, you know, what's the real possibilities here? And I think that for a lot of people like myself, women, minorities, people formerly incarcerated, I think that...
 you know, the sky's the limit for offering real genuine opportunities to these types of people. I'm still enjoying myself at work today. We'll be going back to work deconstructing a home in Northeast, and I don't see myself stopping anytime soon. So as far as to sum it up, I'd say positive, positive, positive, and it's really going back to an old way that just makes more sense. We can't
 be throwing valuable things in the trash, you know, and it's just not smart. So I agree fully and look forward to continue. Thanks, Ryan. We appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I prepared something a little nervous. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners.
 My name is Savannah Stegan with Lovett Deconstruction. I recently attended the deconstruction workforce training put on by the city. I heard about it through Oregon Tradeswomen Incorporated. I attended Oregon Tradeswomen's winter pre-apprenticeship program, where I had the opportunity to work with deconstruction services on a full house deconstruction.
 I discovered I loved the work and I went home and did some research on deconstruction. I loved what I read, especially the sustainability the craft offers. The idea of reusing, repurposing, and recycling building materials while lessening the impact on our landfills really spoke to me.
 I've always enjoyed hard manual labor, problem solving and learning the best and most efficient way to do things, so I thought deconstruction might be the right fit for me. Oregon Tradeswoman told me about the deconstruction workforce training that was to be put on right after graduation. I signed up and was accepted. In the interim, I contacted Durr Lovett with Lovett Deconstruction and told him of my interest in working for him after I graduated the pre-apprenticeship program and after I'd finished deconstruction training.
 He hired me before I was through with both, but I didn't start work with him until after. The deconstruction training taught me more than I could have imagined and prepared me for the work ahead of me. Thanks to the deconstruction training, I was familiar with decon processes, materials, and tools. There's a world of knowledge yet to acquire, but I feel the deconstruction training really helped solidify my choice to go into deconstruction as well as give me confidence in some know-how before stepping onto my first job site with Lovett.
 Before all this, I worked in a warehouse part-time, and before that, I was a pet sitter barely scraping by. Now I work full-time and make more money than I have before. I see deconstruction as a career path, and I'm excited for the future. I'd also like to add that the Deconstruction Workforce Training instructors, Dave Benick and Sarah Badiali, were incredibly knowledgeable, supportive, and helpful. A lot of my success is thanks to them. I am so grateful for my experience with the training and would like to thank everyone else that was involved.
 I think deconstruction is a foot in the right direction as our city grows. Training people with the skills to deconstruct our old homes and buildings seems like a viable and necessary endeavor. I hope that others might have the same opportunity that I've been so fortunate to have been given. Thank you. Thanks, Savannah. Appreciate it very much. Could I just ask a question? What kind of wages does this pay? Kind of what's the range? I'm not asking you what you make, but... Yeah, I'm happy to speak on that.
 Wages was, it's definitely, like I said, we're a new business. And we believe very strongly in paying a living wage. We pay between, if you want the specifics, between $15 and $25. And then upward toward $45 for our crew leader.
 And if I just may take a sidestep and thank Sean Wood and specifically Jordan Jordan from Earth Advantage. As we have formed our business and progressed along, the support from the city has been essential. And the interest in the city to limit the number of deconstructors to a certified deconstructor amount of 12 and I guess now 13 has been essential.
 If it had been an open playing field, my belief is that the demolition companies that have the existing relationships with the developers would have stepped in to perform that task and would not have...
 that would not have provided the opportunity for a new industry to step into the space that was created with the ordinance. Fabulous. That's really helpful. And so if somebody is looking at home and wants to get involved in this profession, how would they go about it? Can you repeat your question? If somebody is watching at home and thinking that making a living wage out of saving beautiful things from old homes is something that they want to do, how would they get involved in this business? Sure.
 Well, as far as getting involved with our company, we recently opened up a salvage yard. It's a warehouse. And I think that you guys have done the same. Yeah, so that has been an interesting sort of...
 we didn't necessarily foresee that coming as the next part of our business. It's a two-part business now, so we have a deconstruction, and then we have a salvage yard to sell the materials. And so having those two revenue streams, we now are looking at employees for the salvage yard. And so in terms of if you're looking to build a beautiful home,
 you can visit any one of the facilities that now have an abundance of gorgeous material to choose from that wasn't available before thank you very much this is very exciting appreciate coming to tell us about it how about if someone just wants to be a guest deconstructor for a day because you guys are making it sound really fun it is so fun and i could use a break from come on down um
 Good. Thank you so much for your testimony. Thank you. I appreciate it. We appreciate your taking the time to come here and share your stories and give us this update. I know. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any public testimony? Yes. We have six people signed up. All right. Very good. Thank you for being here. The first three are Terry Parker, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and John Sandy. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Terry Parker. I'm a fourth generation Portlander living in northeast Portland, and I also am on the United Neighborhoods Reform Steering Committee. Do you want Portland to be a sustainable city?
 If so, expanding this program and putting a halt to the mechanical demolition of homes utilizing diesel particulate belching excavators cannot come soon enough. Moreover, the mechanical demolition of homes built prior to 1978 spreads contaminated lead paint dust directly into the air of residential neighborhoods where kids play and
 families barbecue, and where people simply enjoy the outdoors in the green yards around their homes. Deconstruction is about sustainability and preservation. The reuse of building materials lessens the need for new raw materials, including lumber from growing trees, and preserves historical artifacts such as period window frames.
 interior moldings, trim, and other materials of character that otherwise could not be replaced. In the 1920s, Portland was in the midst of a new home building boom. These homes were built with high quality construction using old growth lumber.
 There is a vibrant marketplace for both restoration and repurposing uses of these products. It is a crime not to preserve the irreplaceable lumber and reuse the materials from these homes. As compared to mechanical demolition, deconstruction also creates significantly more jobs, including entry-level jobs that can lead to higher paying jobs.
 Finally, if the City does not slim down the east side overlay zones identified with the residential infill project and or if HB 2007 passes through the legislature without significant changes whereby the bill addresses affordable housing instead of giving developers card blank by preempting local zoning, there will be a significant escalation of starter, first time buyer and affordable renter homes being torn down.
 For a city that prides itself by promoting reuse and recycling, it is only common sense to expand the deconstruction program to include homes built between 1916 and 1978. And I attached my view of HB 2007 to your written testimony, so hopefully you can oppose that bill. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Parker. Good morning. I'll jump in. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners.
 My name is John Sandy, and I'm a resident of Northeast Portland. And I guess my message taken off of Sean's comment is I'd like to be a little bit more bolder and not quite so cautious with this program. For the last two and a half years or so, I and many others have come before the council presenting evidence of the significant potential health risk by not using best practices when removing a structure in an urban environment.
 Last October, the City Council finally acted with accountability to their primary responsibility of protecting the residents and took a concrete action by implementing this deconstruction ordinance. A real applause to the boldness of last year. I just want to continue that boldness a little bit. While I do have some empathy for the developers' concerns on timing and costs associated with newer development,
 They should not have the final word on what is acceptable risk to their actions. The council must also hear the fear and angst in the voices of mothers with children. These are the individuals who bear the potential consequences. Within the BPS report, it was mentioned that HB 871 is presently moving through the legislature in supporting the verification of proper asbestos abatement requirements
 as well as the use of best practices when dealing with lead paint dust during demolitions. There is no doubt the effective abatement and full manual deconstruction represents the best practice to minimize spread of hazardous materials while removing a structure. Allowing the market to dictate the timing of the use of best practices is a morally suspect policy in my mind, especially in the light of the fact that a house a day is demolished in Portland.
 Therefore, I urge the Council to fulfill their responsibilities and aggressively push the implementation of deconstruction to include all houses built prior to 1978. While I'm confident that with clear direction from this body, the market could effectively react and demonstrate deconstruction capacity within the next 6 to 12 months. That should not be the driving factor. Doing what is right...
 and proven to reduce exposure and associated risk to residents, should not be held hostage by the assumed stress it may place on the developmental market, nor the reuse market. So my final thing is be bold. This is a great program. You've heard the positives for the sustainability. Don't forget the health impacts, and that's where the boldness should come from. Thank you very much. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony, all three of you.
 Text 3, please. Oh, I apologize. That's all right. Yes, thank you. Good morning. Hope springs eternal for you. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And the Bridgecrane can pick up a whole different posse of five middle-aged white men for you to listen to today. I've been glad to see the attendance to counsel on this issue from the two prior presenters. These houses and all the houses that are being demolished contain toxins. And in the sake of...
 letting developers chase a quick buck. We've been releasing poisons into our neighborhoods and not paying attention, which we should have been paying attention as we learned from the Moss study and the glass companies. So not only is this green on just the...
 basic principles of reuse, not filling the landfill. It's also a tiny... Because we've limited it to the 1916 houses and now we're only expanding it to houses 1926 and before, it's a tiny but not adequate a step to protecting quality of life for our neighbours. If you don't go, as these gentlemen have suggested, all the way up to 1978, or at least move it up to the World War II homes, you're essentially saying, well...
 So those developers could create some ugly three-story boxes of multifamily houses that don't have any affordable units. We'll let some toxins, lead paint, whatever, get knocked around in the atmosphere where half the time there isn't even a person spraying a hose to keep the dust down, let alone taking proper precautions. So another – to back that up so far, we'll see what comes up with the next test fires, but –
 None of the poor, distressed, suffering developers have made it in here to tell you how burdensome and horrible this is. So, as the other gentlemen have mentioned, be bold. Hopefully we've got some women and people of color coming behind me to say the same thing. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Next three, please. Next are Kaymona Labute, Barbara Kerr, and Margaret Davis. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning, Mayor, and good morning, Commissioners.
 How are you this morning? Well, I am also one of the students that went through the program. And I just thought it was absolutely amazing. I just want to say ditto what Ryan and Savannah both said about it. Phenomenal. Dave Bennett, I think he should be teaching all of the classes. Also want to, again, say thank you to Earth Advantage and the city of Portland for providing the tools, which I would not have been able to do it if not.
 Now for me, because I also was applied for a welding school, which was a similar opportunity. They were going to pay for everything. It started two days after it ended, so I have not been able to do any jobs since then. However, I'm excited more about starting a business, and especially after hearing...
 The other Good Works, her Goodwood company, you know, that's what I'm really excited about. And I think that this is an amazing opportunity. I think that we need to train more people. I think that all houses need to be deconstructed for a lot of the reasons that some of the gentlemen, some of the three gentlemen that spoke prior to me. And one of the main reasons besides, you know, toxins and those kind of things and things
 And things that we did learn about, too, is that, you know, hopefully people are getting permits and not just throwing everything into the, you know, rubbish and all that now. I mean, hopefully it is. And most of the companies are doing it a lot better. And, you know, what we learned also about the whole process of asbestos and lead and all those kind of things. But for me, it's the wood. I mean, I just, I think about it like when he told me that about the...
 the six miles, I get a little verklempt. And also too is, some of this wood prior to that, some of it was over 500 years old.
 and now it's 105 years old or 100 and you know 650 years old or whatever you know I mean that's some old wood they don't even have this kind of wood anymore the wood is stronger it's um amazing we can do more things with it they don't they're not even they can't even cut wood like that anymore you know because we just don't have that so I just believe that it you know as a green you know community that you know it's something that is just
 We need to do it. Like I said, I think all houses, I don't think it should stop at 26 or 78. I think every house should. And I just want to say thank you again and just thank everybody that is a part of this, the city, Sean, Sean Wood, Alicia, Lisa. I mean, just everybody has been phenomenal. Sarah and also Bedali. I mean, just give us so much information. And I just feel like we're hiring you. You, you, you.
 Now, just come on down. Once I start my business, I'm going to need some help. So, you know, we will definitely train you, and, you know, we're excited to do that. So thank you very much. Awesome. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Excuse me. Could you just say your name for the record again? Oh, Kaimana Lobu. Could you hear that? Oh, and I want to say, and also the Northwest Deconstruction Specialist. You know, they're doing a great job, too. Just everybody is just phenomenal. So I'm just excited.
 excited and proud to be a part of this. Thank you very much. It's an honor to be here. I know, and I feel bad, but I've been waiting here for a long time. My meter's going to run out, so I do need to take off, and I've got to go back to school. We appreciate your being here. Thank you, and good luck with the welding program. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Barbara Kerr, and I represent the United Neighborhoods for Reform on the Deconstruction Advisory Group, or DAG.
 and UNR is pleased that the year-built timeline for the ordinance requiring deconstruction, if a house has to be demolished, has been moved up to 1926, starting January 1. However, we feel this is still much too slow and ask that the year-built date be moved to 1978, the year the use of lead paint was discontinued.
 How often do you have an ordinance that addresses so many of the urgent issues that are on your plates? We obviously know that the ordinance was started to save trees, use less energy, increase our sustainability. And we've heard the wonderful reports on the entry-level jobs with growth potential for so many parts of our community that don't have that opportunity yet.
 But also think about the better quality, lower cost materials that enable repairing rather than replacing house parts, making our affordable homes, the truly affordable homes, the ones that already exist, more affordable to maintain. And that creating small businesses that do not require college degrees or large capital, saving the urban tree canopy. A big machine comes in, you lose your trees.
 Eliminating a widespread source of pollution affecting public health in all the neighborhoods, not just focused hotspots. And eliminating a cause of learning disabilities and behavior disorders that gravely affect children for the rest of their lives, not just providing programs to ameliorate their disabilities, which cost a lot of money, but stopping them from occurring in the first place. All this in a single ordinance with negligible cost.
 An ordinance whose only stated downside is that the building industry is having to quickly adapt to a somewhat different way of operating that they knew was coming and have already begun to embrace. One that is nothing more than being responsible for their impact on the neighbors and their role in the waste stream.
 We can no longer ignore hazardous materials pollution from demolishing buildings, obviously. The discussion around Senate Bill 871 is looking at best practices for demolitions. But deconstruction simply is the best practice and needs to be the way all buildings are demolished. In the DAG, we talk about the challenge of the abundance that will result from more deconstructions. The challenge of abundance.
 An abundance of good quality salvage materials and job and business opportunities from deconstruction companies and the salvage materials outlets, which you've heard today are popping up already.
 And from that to creation and sales of reuse products, which we haven't talked about today. We have put our toe in the water in the first phase of the ordinance. There is some trepidation, even though the results have been good. We've been somewhat bold, but we're still holding back. We need to trust the businesses to rise to the occasion. We need to remember that deconstruction just makes sense. It will work.
 Instead of worrying that it might fail, let's put our energy into building on what we have started, the trainings, the certifications, the networking. Please weigh any short-term challenges against all the benefits that will be lost and damage done in even just a year if we limit the requirement for deconstructions to 1926 during this period of rampant demolitions, the waste in the landfills, the loss of good quality materials for maintaining low-income homes, the lost income from new jobs, the pollution of the neighborhood children.
 Please set the bar at at least 1978 so we can celebrate all that we will have accomplished by doing so. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Margaret Davis. I'm a Northeast Portland resident, and I also work with United Neighborhoods for Reform, which is a grassroots group whose anti-demolition and responsible growth effort has been endorsed by 43 neighborhoods citywide. Props to Sean Wood and the Deconstruction Advisory Group for this proposal and for helping protect public safety with the ordinance.
 It's a step forward for Portland, a city known for sustainable solutions. The problem here is demolition. Not only does demolition remove a usually viable, affordable home from the landscape forever, it also often leaves amid clouds of toxic dust, exposing anyone within 400 feet to hazardous materials such as lead and asbestos.
 Before 1978, a gallon of paint had 15 pounds of lead in it. Now imagine how many gallons of paint would go on a house before it was demolished. Also, the Centers for Disease Control says there's no safe amount of lead in children. This is not a new problem, and wouldn't it be great if we could put it firmly in our past?
 Deconstruction is a slam-dunk for Portland. If our city must lose a house, and we debate whether this is necessary, given our copious vacant land available, then at least the house should be recycled. I'm betting you all recycle. I would also bet that you don't litter. There's laws against that. And yet tear-down builders think it's okay to dust thousands of Portland residents and properties with hazardous materials that carry a lifetime of ills for anyone or thing in the fallout zone.
 mechanical demolitions litter, sometimes lethally. You might hear that the reuse industry would be swamped with materials or not enough labor can be found to recycle these homes. But if that were true, by the same token, we should cool the unabated building boom occurring now with its insatiable demand for materials and labor. How can it be such a problem to recycle and so easy to demolish and landfill those homes? If we're not recycling, we really are throwing it all away.
 Developers might complain that the expense of deconstruction, usually just a few thousand dollars more than mechanical means, is unaffordable to them. But that's nothing compared to the cost of addressing lifelong health problems or learning disabilities. Please extend the requirement for deconstruction to apply to homes built before 1978 when lead paint was outlawed for residential use.
 Portland in the past has dared to be different and bold and proactively progressive. We stand ready to help the city make positive headlines again and to send the message that the greenest home is the one left standing. If not, it must be recycled. It's what we do. With the demolition-heavy residential infill project and House Bill 2007 looming, the decision you consider today has great ramifications.
 As an activist, I know Portland leaders must step up to protect public health and safety. As a mom, I wonder if my kid can't pay attention in class because there were seven demolitions on my block. As a Portland resident, I hope you'll take your public safety charge seriously and make mechanical demolition a hazard of the past. And deconstruction the only way a pre-1978 house leaves our landscape.
 Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that very much. And I just want to make clear that today we're not adopting any new policies. We're accepting a report from the committee, but we're hearing loudly and clearly from a number of people testifying that they'd like us to consider an expansion of that timeline. We can do it. But that's not what we're doing today, just so you know. We're accepting the report and getting the feedback that you're providing. When do you expect you will make a decision then?
 That's up to the will of the council and the committee. So we'll get back to you. I mean, we're hearing it, and I think it makes sense, provided that we can absorb it. And as a strategy, I agree with it. Great. But I just want to be clear, we're not taking a vote today to extend it. We're just accepting the report. All right. We do appreciate the testimony. The report does say that they're going to come back in six months with a goal of expanding it by January 1st of next year. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Commissioner Fritz. Mayor, I move the report. Second. So we have a motion and a second. Any further discussion before we take the roll? Please call the roll. Thank you, ladies, for your testimony. Fish. Well, thanks for the report and all the good news. Thanks to the folks who took time out of their busy days to come tell us the success stories. And we wish you abundant success, obviously. And I appreciate, Mayor, the testimony we've had about some of the household hazards.
 There are three ways this council can address the issue of household hazards generally. And we know we're talking about lead and asbestos in particular, but it's not limited to that.
 Number one is that we can ensure that a buyer of a home knows what the risk factors are in that house. And we've started to take steps to expand disclosure. We now require disclosure about an energy score, which is important. But I think the right-to-know principle needs to be strengthened, so there is an area there I think we could do some good work. The second is we can work with the community to strengthen state laws.
 State law currently is woefully inadequate to, and they don't have the resources, frankly, to enforce the law about asbestos removal, for example, before a demolition and things of that nature. And so we need to strengthen those laws and the oversight. And the third, and I think almost the most important for me, is we have to find ways of creating cost-effective mechanisms for people to get these hazards out of their home. We shouldn't have to wait until you sell your home to make it safe.
 And what we know is that for a lot of cost burdened households, it's very difficult to get this out without some kind of help.
 We provide some measure of help to do energy efficiency upgrades, and we have figured out ways to do that. I think we need to be thinking creatively over time of how we can get lead out of people's pipes and how we can get asbestos out of the walls and lead paint out of the walls, because as long as that's there, it's a risk to the homeowner, and that is separate and apart from the risk that happens to a demolition.
 So I think these issues have been framed for us, and the question is between notice and state law and cost-effective ways for doing remedial work, I think we have some work that we can do as a council. I thank everyone for a very illuminating presentation. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to start out by acknowledging former Mayor Charlie Hales for his leadership on this effort here that we're doing.
 bestowing accolades on today. I think it's rare when the city council actually gets it right and actually comes up with a policy that really is a win for the environment, actually creates jobs, and creates new small businesses. I mean, it's really rare when we get it that right. So I think we've really, to not use a pun, hit the nail squarely on the head here. We have a solid policy that helps our environment, helps neighbors around demolitions, but also, as we've seen, created jobs,
 and new businesses. So it's really a heartfelt...
 I'm overjoyed to hear this. And, in fact, I just had my bathroom deconstructed by Lovett. I don't know if you were on the job or not, but I can't recognize people in their hard hats. But I was really pleased to have a deconstruction of my bathroom. And I think this is something that, you know, more and more people are going to be warm to. And I think it's right to look at this policy and to do it in the right way that will continue to get as many materials reused as possible, but also make sure we don't.
 overwhelm the market, which could then have a negative impact on the businesses that are relying on this market to grow and prosper. So we need to get it right, to continue to get it right. Please devote aye. You, Daly.
 Thank you for your report, and thank you to the community members for your testimony. I do not believe that we should be giving developers or anyone else the choice to pollute our environment and unnecessarily burden our landfills. I fully support accelerating the timeline of the deconstruction requirement until at least 1941, as well as putting some...
 extra protections in place for those homes that fall between 41 and 78 or maybe just right up to now to bait lead and asbestos and
 deal with other issues. So we are anxiously awaiting the state's decision around those issues and my office will be working on creating more stringent rules for Portland, specifically around lead and asbestos abatement. And I also look forward to working with Commissioner Fritz through the parks and through BDS on strengthening our tree code in order to better protect our urban canopy
 So I gave testimony in support of this ordinance. It was one of the first times I testified at City Council last year, and I'm really pleased to get to continue to play some kind of role. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Commissioner Saltzman, I think you're a little modest when you said that this is one of the few times we've got these kind of things right. I think a number of the things that you led in the Office of Sustainable Development, particularly the renovations to recycling programs and such, would also come under that category, again in partnership with Susan Anderson, the director.
 also go further back and laud Mayor Sam Adams for his vision in putting the Bureau of Planning and the Office of Sustainable Development together under Susan Anderson's leadership and really put our climate action plan into actions that are working. And so I am very excited that this has worked. I think we were a bit nervous, the three of us who were here last year, whether it would –
 pan out the way we thought it was going to, and it's great to hear this has been successful. Thank you particularly. It was nice of the folks who testified and took time to be here today to complement the staff and the training that they got, because it's a full parcel of stuff. It's not just doing a policy. That's one of the advantages of the commission form of government, that we make policy and then we are also responsible for implementing them and making sure that people have the resources they need for the policy to be successful. Thank you.
 So I do appreciate Mayor Hales and now Mayor Wheeler continuing to carry the baton on that level. So, aye. Wheeler. Great work, everybody. And thanks to those of you who came to testify. I know you're all eager to get back out onto the job site. I'll just go big on this and say this is further proof that –
 improving the environment around us can be done in a way that is socially just, that also creates economic prosperity for people who are often left out of the equation when it comes to new opportunities around business development, higher wages, job training, and economic opportunity. So this is one more example.
 data point disproving the theory that being environmentally conscientious is bad for business. Just the opposite is true, and your testimony today is living proof that that is the case. So thank you all. Obviously, I'm very happy to support this. I look forward to the report coming back from the committee in six months, having weighed the pros and cons of extending the timeline. It sounds like there's a consensus to do that.
 so I would very eagerly await where you think that line could be drawn and how we could expand this program in a judicious manner. So thank you all. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thanks.
 Mayor? Commissioner Fish. We have a time-certain proclamation, and we have some folks here for that. And we also have a regular agenda item proclamation, and we have some folks that are also with us. So I'm hoping we can hear those two proclamations back-to-back and then pull up the consent stuff. Yeah, that makes good sense. We'll do that. First, let's go to Item 491, please. Thank you.
 491, proclaim May 15th to May 21 to be 31st annual Great Blue Heron Week in Portland. So I will read the proclamation and then I'll pass this on to Commissioner Fish to introduce our speakers and one very large bird.
 Whereas the Great Blue Heron is a majestic symbol of the City of Portland's efforts to restore, protect, and sustain ecologically healthy habitats for fish and wildlife and for the enjoyment of citizens in Portland and throughout the region,
 And whereas the Great Blue Heron Week represents an opportunity for the City of Portland to recommit its efforts to the natural environment by celebrating past successes and future challenges, and whereas the City of Portland continues to work
 the Intertwine Alliance and its 160 partners, including the Audubon Society of Portland, Willamette Riverkeepers, and Urban Green Spaces Institute, to expand, restore, and manage the Intertwine. The Portland-Vancouver region's systems of parks, trails, and natural areas.
 And whereas the city of Portland accepted donation of 45 acres of Ross Island from Ross Island Sand and Gravel, which is managed by the Portland Bureau of Parks and Recreation,
 and whereas Portland Parks and Recreation has continued to improve the ecological health of the natural areas by removing invasive species, planting native trees and shrubs, monitoring birds and other species, and working with the community to steward the property.
 And whereas the Bureau of Environmental Services has adopted the great blue heron as its logo and works in partnership with the Oregon Health Authority and the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality to keep the Willamette River safe from harmful algal blooms and supports restoration of riverine habitats, including Ross Island and Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge, as models of healthy urban fish and wildlife habitat.
 And whereas it is the City of Portland's commitment to continue restoration and management of Ross Island and nearby 160-acre Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge as a refuge for great blue herons and myriad other wildlife and to provide access to nature for Portlanders,
 And whereas the City of Portland will continue to monitor and be actively engaged with Ross Island sand and gravel in the restoration of Ross Island, the Ross Island Lagoon, and the Great Blue Heron Colony in bald eagles' nests,
 on Ross Island. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 15th through May 21st to be 31st Annual Great Blue Heron Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week.
 Commissioner Fish. Mayor, the hour is late, so I will simply invite our three honored guests forward. The first is Mike Houck, the Director of the Urban Green Spaces Institute. The second is Travis Williams, the Director of Willamette Riverkeeper.
 And the third is Bob Salinger, Conservation Director of the Audubon Society of Portland. Gentlemen, welcome. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, my name is Mike Houck. I'm here today representing the Urban Green Spaces Institute. And for your information, this all started with Bud Clark, who was then mayor, gave a speech at the Hilton Hotel and mentioned great blue herons numerous times. I took the advantage of contacting the mayor immediately following, suggested we have a city bird, great blue heron, two whoop-whoops,
 And two weeks later we had a proclamation. It may sound a little trivial, but what it does is allow us each time to come to you and your staff and talk about what we have done and what we will continue to do to ensure that herons share the environment with us.
 Normally, we have lots of field trips all over the region. This year, because Ross Island and Santa Gravel just submitted their report on their restoration activities, we thought it was appropriate to focus strictly on Ross Island this year. And to that end, tomorrow we're meeting with a local state.
 and federal agencies to discuss that progress and when we can expect full restoration of Ross Island by Ross Island Sand and Gravel. On Sunday, we'll be doing our usual Ross Island regatta, paddle around Ross Island. I think Commissioner Udaly will be coming along with some of her staff. I'm not sure if the rest of you will join us or not, but you're certainly invited.
 Each year we take this opportunity to kind of put aside the monetization of herons and wildlife and green spaces, in other words, what they mean to us, and celebrate them for their intrinsic and spiritual values. And that's really what this is about today. And in that spirit, we ask then Oregon Poet Laureate William Stafford to write a poem to commemorate
 the establishment of the great blue heron. I think that it really speaks to, again, the inherent value, the intrinsic value and spirituality of sharing herons in our environment. So it's very brief. I will read it. Spirit of place. Out of their loneliness for each other, two reeds or maybe two shadows lurch forward and become suddenly a life lifted from the dawn to the rain.
 It is the wilderness come back again, a lagoon with our city reflected in its eye. We live by faith in such presences. It is a test for us, that thin but real undulating figure that promises, if you keep the faith, I will exist at the edge where your vision joins the sunlight and the rain. Heads in the light, feet that go down in the mud where the truth is."
 Pass it on to Travis, director of Willamette Riverkeeper, who's done a huge amount of work with the city in restoration on Ross Island. Thanks, Mike. Inherent value? Inherent? I tried. I just want to say thank you to the city of Portland, for you specifically, for the proclamation. It really says a lot. Thank you.
 as well as the city's continued investment in Ross Island, which was reflected in the proclamation and in Mike's remarks. There's still a lot of great work to do out there, and our three organizations, as well as others, are working hard to do work parties related to habitat restoration, as well as simply just to get folks out there to see it and experience it. Because even though it's really in the middle of the city of Portland, you can hear the traffic in the distance everywhere.
 When you get out there, you're really able to connect with nature and everything that that river environment provides on that front. And it's a surprising amount of solitude when you're able to paddle down the Holgate Channel back channel. And I also want to thank specifically this guy for all the work he has done over the decades on this issue.
 Certainly many others, but Mike has really led the charge on Ross Island over a long period of time. And then certainly this gentleman right here as well. So thank you. Thank you. And Travis as well. I would acknowledge Travis. Bob Salinger, Conservation Director.
 for the Audubon Society of Portland. So we also appreciate your designating this the 31st annual Great Blue Heron Week. I think it really speaks to how long we've been at it as a city trying to protect and restore this site.
 and trying to protect natural resources in the city as a whole. I do want to take it up a level. I know our focus today is on Ross Island, but I think we always have to think about it in the greater context of the river. And I look at this year as a really pivotal year moving forward. I think, first of all, we need to redouble our efforts on Ross Island, really think about what the future will bring and how we bring it into more complete public ownership and what that looks like.
 Number two, we have an incredible opportunity in front of us this year with the Willamette River Superfund process. We've moved beyond the record of decision. Now is the time to move forward in implementation, and the progress we're making there is exciting. I think it was a divisive process, but people are coming together, interested in really moving forward to make our river healthy for people and for wildlife. And then number three, I just wanted to flag for you the Central City Plan, which is coming before you this summer.
 A lot of work has gone into that plan. It has some really new, innovative, I think, cutting-edge policies around the environment, including the river. And...
 It's been a while since we've adopted some new innovative policies around the natural resources in Portland. It's been several years, really, since we've seen some big steps forward the way we used to take. I think that's right in front of us again with the central city plan, and that's exciting. So hopefully we'll be able to move that forward and keep the environmental policies intact that are in the draft that's coming to you. So with that, I'll just say thanks. Hope we see you out on the river Sunday or some other time, and I look forward to working with you on these other issues as well.
 And actually, I would say that we would be more than happy to take you out another time if you can't make it on Sunday. So just get in touch. Great. Thank you, gentlemen. I've got a question. Commissioner Udaly. What are we paddling? Are they kayaks, canoes? Well, we have a safety boat. You're welcome to come along in the safety boat or paddle your own kayak or canoe. It's actually a safety barge. I've never been in a kayak. I can do both. All right.
 So I'll wave to you from the Esplanade because I'll be on the National Alliance of Mental Illness Walk. I also wanted to note that I think it was in the past year that the Port of Portland gave Portland Parks and Recreation the northernmost tip of Ross Island. So that is gradually assuming control of the entire island. Thank you very much for your work. Mike, quick question just for an update. Progress on the no-wake zone?
 Well, thankfully, we did get a major portion of the NOAA XO, and we saw it from the Marine Board, from basically the Oregon Yacht Club upstream to the mouth of the Ross Island Lagoon and the lagoon itself, but not downstream from the mouth of the lagoon. We're hopeful one day we'll have the whole Holgate Channel. And have we had success working with our partners at Multnomah County in terms of enforcing the law? No.
 Yes, I'd say for the most part. I actually think most people are observing the slow no-wake zone. The problem being that the signage is not really adequate, and it disappears during a portion of the year. I would say for the most part it's been fairly successful, but we could ramp it up a bit.
 Thank you all very much. Thank you. We sure appreciate it. Thanks. Nick, can you hand me one of those? That's the original copy of the proclamation. Hey, Bob. This is from the mayor. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.
 So maybe you're going to read 506. Yeah, let's move to item 506, please. Proclaim the month of May to be Older Americans Month in Portland. So, Mayor, let's invite up our guests before you read it. So George Hawker, Office of Commissioner Loretta Smith, why don't you come forward. Barbara Bernstein, Elders in Action. And Erin Gregg, Multnomah County Aging and Disability Services. We have three honored guests.
 Welcome. The mayor will read the proclamation. All right. Whereas the City of Portland – I'm sorry, did you read the item? Okay, very good. Whereas the City of Portland and its community partners at Multnomah County, Age Friendly Portland, Elders in Action, Portland State University, and AARP are committed to a shared vision of a Portland that is welcoming and inclusive to people of all ages and abilities.
 And whereas the City of Portland supports livable communities for people of all ages and abilities through such actions as funding age-friendly Portland's work, expanding choices for public restrooms, improving pedestrian safety, funding programs in our community centres, and implementing policies to keep Portland's neighbourhoods welcoming and accessible, we are also working with the City of Portland to improve the quality of life for all of our residents.
 And whereas communities flourish when people of all ages and abilities contribute their experience, their time, and their perspective, and whereas older adults contribute their time and experience to help redefine what it means to age by serving as mentors, starting businesses, volunteering in their neighborhoods and in schools, and challenging our concepts of the aging process.
 And whereas we celebrate the many contributions of older adults in our community who deserve our respect and appreciation, and now therefore I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, hereby proclaim the month of May to be Older Americans Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day.
 Thank you for being here. We appreciate it very much. Barbara, would you kick us off? Oh, sure. I'd love to. It's our partner, Elders in Action. My name is Barbara Bernstein. I'm the Executive Director of Elders in Action, and I want to thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for that proclamation and city commissioners for this opportunity to speak.
 The Administration for Community Living has a theme every year to celebrate and to bring attention to older Americans, to older issues. And this year it's Live Out Loud. And I can't think of a better city in which to live out loud, speak out loud. What is it? Live out loud. Sorry. Age out loud. Age out loud. Live out loud. Age out loud. Yeah.
 Excuse me. Can you please let her continue her testimony? Excuse me. You're interrupting the testimony. Please continue. Thank you.
 Civic engagement is built into the city of Portland's DNA. There are so many opportunities to be civically involved through ONI, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, the Civic and Diversity Leadership Programs, the Neighborhood Programs. Bureaus have advisory councils. We have boards that we participate in. The NET Program. Older adults and Portland residents
 residents have an opportunity to really be engaged in their city. And Elders in Action is another portal for civic engagement, and our volunteers are amplifying the voices of those who cannot be heard. And I wanted to give you an example of the kinds of calls that we're getting from older adults who are more vulnerable. We had a call from a woman whose rent was being increased. This is
 a very common call that we get. In the last year, about 50% of the 300 calls we get are from older adults experiencing housing insecurity.
 And this woman said that essentially she didn't think the property management knew who they were raising rents on. And all she wanted was a witness to communicating to them how she couldn't afford the rent increase and where was she to go. And through the help of our advocate, the management company agreed to let her stay, even though she couldn't afford the rent increase until she found another place to stay. So that is, I think...
 an example of how we can be more responsive to the challenges of the housing emergency that we're experiencing.
 Another woman called, or her daughter called us, because her mother, her 82-year-old mother's house had been sold out from under her. She was partially blind. This was a case that you may have read about in the Oregonian last year, and Legal Aid was able to take her case to court. Really, we thought there was no positive outcome to that, but through our relationship with Legal Aid, we were able to work with them so that they were able to take her case.
 So again, these are our volunteers working in partnership with older adults to help them through a problem. And generally we have about four to five restraining orders that we help older adults fill out against their caretakers. So, yeah.
 While Portland is an amazing city in which to age, we do have a responsibility to also care for those who are more vulnerable. And older adults engages vital older adults in service of those more vulnerable older adults. How we age is largely determined by the culture and environment we live in.
 And we are very lucky to have an amazing transportation system and to have livable, walkable communities. And I ask that the council be really vigilant of those things. As rents increase and our older adults are pushed out from the center, they are further away from the resources that they need to age well. We don't want this community to just be for the privileged.
 So I would like to thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your commitment to vital aging, for your commitment to retirement security. Elders in Action looks forward to being your partner in making Portland a more age-friendly community. Commissioner Fish, we'd like to thank you for being our liaison and always being an advocate of older adult issues at every opportunity. Commissioner Fritz, we'd like to...
 Thank you for your work with ONI and the parks right now. We're looking forward to working more closely with them and their senior programs. And Commissioner Udeli, we're honored to be a part of the visioning process with ONI right now and linking our age-friendly work with the opportunity to expanding our community's resiliency work. So I think there's a really nice connection there.
 So thank you to all of you for your public service and your commitment to older adults, which we all hope to be one day. Barbara, thank you for your testimony. I just want to – you left off one thing that Elders in Action does that's been invaluable for the city, which is you've helped us learn how to better communicate with some of our most important stakeholders.
 And it is my intention over the next year to take some of those lessons that we've learned in working with Elders in Action and codify it at the city so that every time we do a publication or a communication, we're making sure that it's accessible to older adults. And your work in that has really been important, so thank you.
 George Hawker was the public advocate here for a number of years, and now he's doing great work on the other side of the river, but really representing our whole community. George, welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Morning. And commissioners, my name is George Hawker. I'm the public advocate for Commissioner Loretta Smith on the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for the invitation to be here this morning. I'm especially pleased because as an older adult, this is my month,
 And, Mr. Mayor, we met for the first time in the first few months of 2009 when I staffed Commissioner Fish for the kickoff briefing facilitated by Jay Bloom of your task force report, Every One Matters, A Practical Guide to Building a Community for All Ages. The work of the task force and subsequently the work of Age-Friendly Portland and Age-Friendly Multnomah County, the AARP, and other agencies,
 Older adult-focused organizations have made the Portland metropolitan area a leader nationally and internationally in addressing older American issues and needs. And I can't think personally of a city that I would rather be growing older in than this one, and I've been in 53 countries and lived in five. So this is a place for older adults.
 Older Americans have been for the past several years and will continue to be the fastest-growing demographic we face. In line with this year's theme, age out loud or live out loud, I want to just share some recent information. According to Newswire, yesterday,
 Local organizations experience increased demands with fewer resources. Older Americans are stepping up to fill in the gaps, and their service is more important than ever, said Aaron McGrath, acting director of Senior Corps.
 Older adults are transforming society and addressing some of the toughest problems facing our nation by closing the mentorship gap, reducing crime, reviving cities, fighting the opioid epidemic, helping seniors remain independent in their homes. And just for a moment, I had my mother in a nursing home in Silver Spring, Maryland, for six years, from 1997 to 2003.
 at $6,000-plus a month. And four years ago, I had my only living art in a nursing home in Maryland, and it was over $8,000 a month. It means that most adults end up using up all of their resources and then having Medicare take over. And if we lose Medicare, it's going to be even worse, a major drain on this already $1.6 billion budget deficit that the state has.
 So the more we can do to keep our older adults in their homes, the better it's going to be for everyone in this state. So anyway, older adults are also rebuilding communities following disasters. And more than 21 million Americans age 55 or over contributed more than 3.3 billion hours of service in their communities.
 Older Americans provide services valued at $78 billion to the U.S. economy. They are a national treasure. Finally, I'd like to mention that Commissioner Smith invites any seniors here today to her quarterly pancake breakfast this coming Saturday, May 20th at 830 at the Urban League's Multicultural Center in Martin Luther King Boulevard. We feed quarterly somewhere between 75 and 90 seniors.
 I will be cooking along with other members of the staff. On Friday, I will go out to Restaurant Depot and purchase 40 pounds of sausage, 40 pounds of bacon, 30 dozen eggs, 20 pounds of pancake mix, about 12 gallons of orange juice, 400 individual pats of buddy. And we will be cooking first thing Saturday morning, so please come. And finally, Commissioner Smith will be holding town hall forums.
 on elder abuse and fraud with some other partners, Elders in Action and others. May 24th at NAYA, June 7th at the Hollywood Senior Center, June 9th at East County ADVSD, June 12th at Impact Northwest, and June 14th at the Urban League Multicultural Center.
 Again, thank you for having me this morning. Thank you for your service and everything you do for not only older Americans, but everybody in this area. Thank you. We sure appreciate your testimony. Great. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Erin Grayheck, and I'm the Community Services Manager with Multnomah County Aging, Disability, and Veterans Services. We are here today in celebration of Older Americans Month. The theme for 2017 is Age Out Loud.
 What it means to age has changed, and Older Americans Month is a perfect opportunity to recognize and celebrate what getting older looks like today. More than ever before, older people are working longer, trying new things, and engaging in their communities. They're taking charge, striving for wellness, focusing on independence, and advocating for themselves and others.
 We know that a person's ability to achieve wellness, maintain dignity and choice, and to have the wherewithal and freedom to advocate is influenced by the broader society and its institutions, programs, and policies. Aging Disability and Veterans Services is proud to be an institution that promotes the independence, dignity, and choice in the lives of older adults, people with disabilities, and veterans,
 and we are grateful for our partnership in the Age-Friendly Network with the City of Portland, with nonprofit partners like Elders in Action, and academic institutions like Portland State University. And we're thankful today to be present and celebrate this proclamation. Thank you very much. We appreciate all of your hard work, and thank you for being here. And we'll continue the journey. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. May I just ask a question? Yes, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for that wonderful presentation. We're not currently convened as the Budget Committee. Am I correct in assuming you're going to raise the issue of funding for the age-friendly cities this afternoon? Or somebody is? Yes.
 That's to be determined, yeah. We've been trying to get information about what is and is not being funded currently. Yeah, so I would just state right now that I'm committed to continuing the Age-Friendly Cities progress and hope that we will continue to work together in old and new ways.
 Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, we have a staff person available to do 492. Yeah, so let's go back to the items that were pulled, 492, 497, and I believe it was 499, Carla. Is that correct? Correct, yes. Okay, so let's start with item number 492, please. Authorize an agreement with Triumfhead Corporation.
 for an estimated amount of $20,080 to implement the Environmental Services Project Southwest Yamhill-Morrison to Southwest's first 13th project, number E10886. And Carla, may I ask how much testimony do we have on this issue?
 This was pulled from consent. Mimi German requested it. Okay. So, Mayor, I'll tee this up very quickly. Okay. The Bureau of Environmental Services is planning to replace the pipes underneath the MAX lines.
 BES must enter into a license agreement with TriMet. In order to do so, this license costs about $20,000. This covers indemnity, special use provisions, and warranties. This cost does not include the actual cost of replacing the pipes, only the agreement with TriMet. And Bill Ryan is here to give us about a one-minute overview. Mayor and commissioners, as Commissioner Fish said with...
 The agreement with TriMed is just to pay for services, and I have with me here Susan Hjorten, who is the project manager for that project, and she can answer any further questions that you may have. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Public testimony? Thank you.
 You can go ahead and be seated. Thank you. This was an item pulled by a citizen, so we're not sure what the issue is. So, Mayor, this is a license agreement in order to do work that intersects with Max Lines? Correct. Good morning. Hi. I pulled this today because –
 I have concerns about TriMet. And as long as TriMet is acting as one unit, as one organization, then I feel that my testimony is valid. This is a license agreement, Mayor? Unfortunately, that's not correct. As I stated at the very beginning of the meeting, the issue has to be relevant to the issue at hand. This is specific to licensing and specific to the rest of this. To this licensing agreement, correct. Exactly, right.
 And I'm going to start off by reading a poem. The Skin of Snakes Lying on this crumbling soil Fingers spread Searching for air or a prayer The skin of snakes
 I receive that I am dirt clinging to my teeth. I am sweat, waters carrying whales and salt that brines venison. Those starlight falters, there is breath in the shallows. A tide recedes, as do city council members, swallowed, crawling through the outer skin of snakes. I am the last beginning.
 I don't have all that much to bring to the table regarding this, except for a bit of common sense. And I wish that the city council would understand that when TriMet, regardless of this license or any other license, kills somebody, that that money that they are owed by the city should go for funeral rights for those whom they kill. Okay.
 And this just happened with Terrell Johnson, and I think that that money, instead of being used for this, should go to the family for whatever they would like regarding his death by TriMet. And if not, then the city council could take that $20,000, not pay TriMet, punish TriMet, and create a memorial for all of the people who have been killed by cops in our city. That is my testimony. Thank you.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Bridgecrane. No relationship to Mr. Terrell Johnson killed on TriMet property. With the TriMet MAX system being closed recently, I'm a little concerned about overlap here. A couple weeks ago, Commissioner Fish made an aside to Commissioner Fritz about the ultraviolet, the ultraviolet pipe curing. And there's been equipment...
 On the Mac. So there's something already going on there. So I don't know exactly where this is happening. The other thing is, I think for citizens who have seen huge headlines in all the media that Trima has money to build a jail.
 And now we can't fix our sewer pipes unless they get licensing fees from us. It seems a little bit absurd. And then, I don't know if you know this, but we have a governor named Kate Brown who's going to privatize TriMet. So that actually also creates a question. The issue of actually privatizing TriMet has been raised by the governor in the past day. It's in the Willamette week. So...
 Not the best timing to, you know, it's a small amount of money. The city can lose it and not suffer, except as Ms. Sherman pointed out, it's the funeral costs of Terrell Brown. But I think that regardless of if you're persuaded that this is a moment at this time to give $10,000 away so that we can fix our sewers to try that under some questionable legal schema.
 The city, metro, and the county need to move quickly to bring TriMet under a local elected board. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. Star Stauffer. I have to concur with Mimi here in regards to these licensing fees from TriMet. I happen to utilize TriMet as a mode of major transportation for myself and quite frankly find them to be extraordinarily expensive.
 First of all, why they need $20,000, $10,000, even a dollar from us extra at this point is absurd considering they are allocated money from the Department of Homeland Security to give to the Portland police who utilize those funds to police their max tracks and their trains and their buses. And as we've learned, and it's been confirmed through Terrell Johnson's killing, they use it to kill black people.
 So you need to be allocating this money back to the families of people who have lost loved ones due to exposure on these tracks or on these trains from houselessness. You need to be giving this money back to families who have lost their children due to police murders like Terrell Johnson, Qantas Hayes. You need to be investing this money to make
 TriMet overall safer for women in general, especially women of color. Their bus stops are ridiculously insecure and have poor lighting most of the time. So I'm not really sure why they're asking for $20,000 for a license when they charge extraordinary fees to utilize their service.
 What are they doing with their money? Before they're awarded this money, I want to see what they've been doing with the money that they've been getting from tickets from people. And not only that, the money they've been getting from people who are issued tickets for not having fare on their systems. What's going on with that money? Why do we need to pay more money to this extraordinarily expensive transportation system that is working in conjunction with cops that kill black people?
 This is just disgusting. But yet again, you'll do nothing because that's what you do because this has to do with black people and it has to do with TriMet and it has to do with the police and this is just another white supremacist circle jerk. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other public testimony? Good afternoon.
 I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Before I move this to second reading, since this is a non-emergency first reading, I want to be very clear that the reason we are paying TriMet $20,000 is we're asking them to shut down the electricity so that we can fix the sewer system without electrocuting our public employees. I think it's a very good use of resources. It's a non-emergency issue. We're moving it to second.
 reading. The next item pulled was, I believe, 497? 497. Very good. Read the item, please. Extend agreement with the Oregon State Marine Board by three years to restrict nighttime use of Duckworth dock except on certain days. Mimi German pulled this as well. I don't know. Do we have... Okay, let's move on. Okay, sorry. It's taken care of. Thank you.
 So we do that on our own? No, we do. We need to call the roll on that because we pulled it already. 497, Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted, so that brings us to 499, I believe, if that's correct. 499? 499. Lightning pulled 499. Oh.
 Grant revocable permits to the Portland Rose Festival Foundation to perform activities relating to Portland Rose Festival annual celebration from May 26, 2017 through June 11, 2017. Who pulled that item? Lightning. He's not here? I think Ms. German also wanted it. No. Had she pulled it? Lightning pulled it first. You did ask for 497 accidentally, I think. But 499 is pulled. All right. Do we have somebody here to talk about it?
 From staff, I mean, first. Yeah, thank you. Sorry. Good morning. Just a brief description would be sufficient. You bet. Allison Madsen, PBOT. I'm the special event coordinator. It's my privilege to come before you. This is my 10th year with this ordinance, which is basically the housekeeping that allows us to issue permits for the parades, Waterfront Village, and some of the closures for the formation disband areas. Yes.
 Well, I'm very glad it got pulled because thank you for all your work on it. It's a very complicated permit system, and I appreciate your work. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Public testimony. I don't have a sign-up sheet for this. It was pulled. My name is Mimi German, and as I voiced a few weeks ago regarding the Rose Festival, my issues are with the Rose Festival's funding of Fleet Week, which is all part of the same thing. And I'm speaking specifically today to these permits.
 The city used its right to pull the permit on May Day against the May Day protest, which is, I believe, what went down. And what I would like to say in testimony is that I hope that come Fleet Week Day, when we do protest warships coming into our waters, that the city considers revoking the permit for Fleet Week Day.
 on that day as well. So really that is what I have to say. I feel that the houseless community is completely discriminated against with the Rose Festival, especially blatantly regarding the rights that Rose Festival has to camp in the streets, to get tents, the stores help them out, everybody gets to crash on the streets, no cops, you know, this whole thing. And it's a blatant
 disregard to how houseless people actually live and get swept off the streets while the Rose Festival people enjoying themselves get to hang out on the streets in tents. So that's one issue, but my main issue is Fleet Week, and there will be protests.
 And I do hope that the city does what it does, unfortunately what it did on May Day, that it does in the right way on Fleet Week and pulls that permit for these warships. I'm asking you to consider pulling that permit since you have the right to do so.
 Mimi, can I respond to one thing? You can. And thank you for your testimony. Just to be clear, this particular ordinance pertains to things like a permit so they can hold the Junior Rose Festival parade, the Starlight Parade. So it doesn't have anything to do with Fleet Week. This has to do with some of the other public events. These are parks and transportation. Exclusively. But your testimony, I understand, relates to something else. But I just want to – this particular one involves a very limited range of activities. Okay. Great. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. Quite frankly, I'm afraid that my testimony is going to sound like it mirrors Mimi's in some ways, but my particular issue with these permits, these revocable permits, have actually nothing to do with Fleet Week and everything to do with the police that will be escorting the parade. And also, is it the case that the police will have their own float in either of the parades? Has nothing to do with this matter.
 Okay, so my concern about that is, I'm concerned about people's safety participating in this parade. The Portland Police have displayed through recent May Day actions that they have no regards for permits and they have no regard for people who are vulnerable within these marches or these parades. And I'm concerned that at any moment during this
 either one of these parades, the police will decide to lose their minds and attack people and revoke this permit. And then what happens to all that money? What happens to all those people when they have nowhere to turn because it's the cops that are attacking them? I mean we're going to have people of color here, we're going to have immigrants, we're going to have disabled, we're going to have children, we're going to have elderly, we're going to have people who cannot just drop and run as we've seen on May Day.
 And the cops have shown time and again that they don't care if there's a permit. They don't care if there's not a permit. They will attack, and like they did on May Day, there will be barely any warning if there's a warning at all. And so I urge you to consider whether or not you need to have the police out there where they can attack these people who will essentially be sitting ducks thinking that they're safe and protected under their extraordinarily expensive permit.
 And meanwhile, the police could be plotting against them, putting on riot gear while they're marching with them, embedding themselves within the march, and then launching tear gas and pepper bullets and attacking people of color and boxing in other marginalized community members who can't escape, creating a serious...
 dangerous situation in the streets that, you know, where panic and fear and injuries are going to be a thing. I mean, are we going to have first responders out there to respond if the police do decide to go crazy and attack people during this parade? I mean, I really urge you to consider the safety of the people that are going to be in this parade. Permit or no, these police are dangerous. You have killer cops out there and they're all just outrageously aggressive and over the top. And you need to do something about that. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, Charles Bridgecrate. And I think the answer to my question is maybe fuzzily in here. But when the United States Navy and maybe a couple of foreign ships show up there to expend a little bit of the huge United States defense budget, it seems like we give them free fencing and we isolate our cherry trees from our neighbors so that we can have this –
 security thing. I don't know if that's the community village. The staffer mentioned a community village. But right now, while we have homeless people sleeping underneath Steel Bridge and those access ramps for Steel Bridge, there's no porta potty there. When the billions of dollars of defense industry equipment wheel up and more south upstream from the Steel Bridge, there'll be a porta potty and there'll be fencing. And a few years ago, five, six years ago, we were
 some of our neighbors destroyed the parks right across the street with their little Occupy thing. So I just think it's ironic that it looks like, based on the additional revenue in the community from the Rose Festival, we can eat the cost of fencing ourselves off from our own cherry trees so that these multi-million dollar warships could be additionally secured by some fencing that the city of Portland will pay for and create a buffer zone between
 us and our brave service members who need a buffer zone between us. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 507 is our next item. Bill.
 507, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the citywide sewer rehabilitation project. Number E10562 for $7,800,000. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. And it is late, but we have a number of items to get through, and we'll try to be as brief as possible. This project will rehabilitate and repair the worst of the worst.
 About 20,000 feet of combined sewer, pipe, manholes, service laterals, and other infrastructure in severely deteriorated condition and at risk of structural failure. The project area includes more than 30 different locations in neighborhoods and business districts throughout the city. These improvements will protect public health and our environment by preventing structural failures. Here to kick things off is Bill Ryan. Bill. Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor. Good morning.
 Again with me today is Susan Hjorten. She is the project manager also for this project. So I'll let Susan tell you about Citywide Sewer Repair. Hello. As Bill mentioned, my name is Susan Hjorten. I'm a senior engineering associate in environmental services. We are here today asking for authorization to approve an ordinance to advertise $8 million Citywide Sewer Rehabilitation Project contract.
 This project is a part of Phase 3 of the large-scale sewer rehabilitation program, which is approved in our current capital improvement budget.
 The large-scale sewer rehabilitation program, we're wrapping up Phase 2, getting into Phase 3. Phase 2 designed over 53 miles of pipe, either to be replaced or rehabilitated. Thirty of those miles have actually been completed through construction. Phase 3, to date, has 18 miles that have been designed. There's...
 Three projects in pre-design, a couple projects in planning. So their scope of work hasn't been added to the total miles yet. So the project overview for the citywide sewer rehab includes 62 segments of pipe. It's located in about 30 different areas of the city. The diameter range from 8 inches to 30 inches. Thirty. The average...
 age of the pipe is 50 to 130 years old. We're going to replace over 11,000 feet of pipe. We're going to rehabilitate 9,000 feet of pipe. Also included, that's not shown in these numbers, is 5,000 feet of new sewer service laterals will be replaced and about 900 feet of inlet leads and approximately 45 new manholes. So as you can see, the project's kind of scattered throughout the area. The black dots represent the location of the work.
 The statistics are there, 55% in local residential streets, about 31% in busier arterial streets, and then 14% in easements. The construction methods will be open trench pipe replacement, cured in place pipe lining, pipe bursting, and then some pipes are strictly spot repairs. To determine which pipe go in the project, typically our city maintenance crews can repair some of this pipe, but if it gets too deep, over 16 feet,
 They asked that it be done by a contract, larger diameter pipe the same way, or in heavy traffic areas. And then the phase two and phase three have typical project boundaries. These pipes fell out of those areas. So we're just kind of grabbing all the pipe that need immediate attention. This project posed some challenges.
 On the west side, many of the runs of pipe are located in challenging terrains, narrow, windy roads. Some sewers are located in wooded areas where the terrain and the pipe slopes are 20%, 40%, all the way up to 67% grade.
 And typically, when we install on the east side, you know, a flat area, it's at 2%. So these houses are not only located – there's one sewer that's located under a house. Some are in backyards or wooded areas. There's manholes that can't be accessed by vehicles. So crews are going to have to carry, pack in the equipment and material to get to the work.
 Our public involvement staff has contacted over 19,000 property owners, tenants, business owners, and operators in these 30 different locations, including 37 neighborhood associations, various businesses, or various business groups. PI has been very interactive in the design process to keep the team informed.
 of local schools, street fairs, churches, farmers markets, basically any community gatherings that the project may impact. So I just want to give a shout-out to them because they not only take the word out to the neighborhoods, they also bring it back in to the team and help us determine best methods for going about the work.
 We work closely with PBOT to try to minimize traffic impacts. They help us with traffic control plans. And so if we need to try to determine a different construction method or staging areas to help the traffic flow, they're at the table helping us with that. And one other thing I'd like to point out is all of our projects –
 communicate with the utility companies a lot, natural gas, telephone, fiber optics, electrical. So in this photo here in the upper left corner, the black square is actually the bottom of a utility pole. So it was inserted, it broke the pipe.
 We were trying to figure out the best way to go about it. Got a hold of the utility company. They agreed to just come out and support the pull. Boom. The contract will be there. Just do a small spot repair versus having the utility company go ahead of our work, relocate the pull, cause interruption to their service in the neighborhood area. Traffic control is just instead we narrowed it down just a couple days of work and minimal interruption to the neighborhood.
 An engineer's estimate is almost $7.8 million. We hope to advertise next month and begin construction in October. It may not be obvious from Susan's presentation, but she's really to be congratulated on completing this project because this is all the difficult stuff that was taken out of other projects because it was so difficult that it was bogging down progress on getting the projects designed. So...
 I think Susan would probably use a different word than difficult, but it was a long road to hoe, and we really are proud to have Susan have completed this project.
 Thank you both. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, two people, Mary Seif and Star Stauffer. So given that we have a lot of items backed up and a lot of staff, I want to respect them for being here. I'm going to limit testimony to one minute and 30 seconds. I won't be draconian about it, but if you could try very hard to limit your testimony, I'd appreciate it. Thank you for your patience, Mary. Thank you.
 Shoot, I wanted to bring up a website for you. Why don't we start with Star? Yeah, start with Star. It's very difficult to do that. It's already queued up. Okay. And then, Carla, if she needs help, maybe you can help her with that. Please go ahead. I don't want to screw up their presentation. Mostly, I just have some clarifying questions. Are the crews that are working on these projects, are they already chosen at this point?
 As far as the, is it a bid situation or, I mean, are these city employees? I'm just trying to clarify. So it's a complicated question. A lot of the work is done by city employees. Some of the work by state law gets competitively bid and comes back. So it's a combination.
 And have those bids already occurred for this particular phase of the project? This particular ordinance authorizes a competitive solicitation. Okay. So, I mean, and part of that solicitation of these crews are –
 I hate the word diversity because it's such a backdoor racist term, in my opinion. But is diversity a qualifying factor? Is that something that we're looking for in these crews? In all of our public contracting, we have aspirational goals to have –
 opportunities for people who have historically been shut out for doing this kind of contracting. And we have a bunch of rules and guidelines that we follow. Then we report back to council on our success.
 Because mostly what I just want to make sure we're doing is giving the priority to businesses that are owned and run by people of color, families of color, and making sure that especially where we're working in neighborhoods of color, that we have people working that...
 represent that community so that those members feel safe and feel like their neighborhood is going to be actually taken care of in the way that the city is telling them it will and that's really the only things that I'm concerned about that we make sure we continue to do. Thank you. Fair enough. Thank you.
 Good work, Mary. Hi. Mary Seip. Good. I completely support this and all the work that's going on around the city on our infrastructure. Unfortunately, what I don't support is all of the nighttime work that's going on. I brought up the Noise Control Office website, and I'll see if I can minimize it enough so that you can get an idea. This shows you all of the noise variance permits throughout the city. Let me see if I can make it.
 And if you go through their website, you will see like probably close to 100 noise variance permits that are for sewer repair work, CIPP work being done by the city that's being permitted to be done between 6 p.m. and 7 a.m. in the morning all over the city.
 And I testified to this several months ago on another project asking you to please ask the city to give consideration to how they're doing this work. This morning was a perfect example of something that we're experiencing. I was woke up at 4 o'clock this morning by what sounded like a jet flying over, and it stopped.
 Then it started up again. And finally, at about 4.30, I went outside, and it was a City of Portland crew working to install the big, wide, white stripes to install a crosswalk on the corner of 11th and Northrop. And they said they had to do it because of the streetcar. Well, the interesting thing is is that the whole time that they were doing this work, at 4 o'clock in the morning...
 They had one lane open. As soon as they laid something down, they'd let a car drive over it. There was no reason for them to have to stop traffic. And the most ludicrous part about it is they did this work the day after the streetcar started running down that street after it had been shut down on that street for two solid weeks. We need to really take a look at what we're doing to the people living in our community who are trying to sleep at night. Quite frankly, this pretty much...
 ruined my day for me. And I called the police department, and the police officer proceeded to tell me how the city workers are not subject to the laws and regulations that we have in the city. They did not have a noise variance permit, and she refused to do anything. And the police department does have the authority to tell them to stop working when they do not have a noise variance permit. Yeah.
 So I just want to impress this upon you. Can I respond very briefly, Mayor? First of all, I apologize. This sounds like a PBOT issue. I'm not throwing them under the bus, but we're all responsible. And we need to do a better job coordinating. PBOT, Transportation Bureau, and the utilities are doing a better job coordinating. So we do one stop. We don't come back and do it three times.
 I share your concerns about the noise that disrupts people's sleep. I think people have a right to sleep until 6 or 7 without interruption. If you can give us some additional information after the hearing about that item, we'll look into it. And we take very seriously this issue about when we do the work.
 What I will tell you, though, is that because of traffic and because of other concerns, it is sometimes the only option we have, and because sometimes it's emergency work, our only option sometimes is to do evening work, and that doesn't mean that we can't do a better job of minimizing the sound level. So we take your concerns very seriously. Thank you. And when you have a moment, if you go to this website and you just scroll down and look at some of these, you will see how many of these sewer repair projects are being done overnight throughout the city. I mean, it's –
 I'll ask for a briefing next week at my regular check-in. And I did file a complaint with the Noise Control Office, and I'll be meeting with them this afternoon to get more details. Good, and this was certainly illustrated a few weeks ago. Very helpful. And thanks for the website thing. We had the variance hearing in here on a similar issue. So thank you for being there then, and thank you for your clarifications today. Thank you. I appreciate it.
 Is there any further public testimony? Seeing none, any further board discussion? This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. Next item is 508, if you could read the item.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Tabor Powell Sewer Rehabilitation Phase 2, Project Number E103824, an estimated $1,875,000. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is 509. Aye.
 Consider the proposal of Greg Winteroud on behalf of Run Our Dream LLC and the recommendation from the hearings officer for conditional approval to change the comprehensive plan map designation from neighborhood commercial and medium density multi-dwelling to urban commercial.
 and the zoning map designation from Neighborhood Commercial 2 and Residential 1000 to Storefront Commercial for property at 2815 Southwest Barber Boulevard, LU16-186417CPZC. This is a final vote in adoption of the findings. Please call the roll for you. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, I was unable to attend the hearing, and I have not familiarized myself with the record, so I will not be voting on this. Please call the roll.
 Do we need a specific motion first, Lauren, or are we? There was a tentative vote, so I think that there could be. We didn't vote last week. We just made a motion. I move to accept the findings. Senator. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Saltzman to accept the findings. Please call the roll. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Here. I mean, aye. The findings are adopted. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 510, amend the comprehensive plan map designation and amend the zoning map for property at 2815 Southwest Barber Boulevard, LU16-186-417CPZC. Any further council discussion? Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 Item 511, accept the report on status of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Lagoon Reconstruction Phase 3 and 4, Project Number E07146, from the Chief Engineer. Why don't we just continue this item, Commissioner Fish? Mayor, I'm just kidding. Thank you. You must be the most patient city employee ever. Mayor, I think this is going to win an award someday for the most postponed report.
 in the history, and I beg your indulgence. It's been a long day, and it's going to be a longer afternoon, but this is a very important update, and Bill Ryan has been prepared now on several council sessions to present it, and if we could give him the indulgence of making this presentation, I would appreciate it. Well, I expect it to be a phenomenal presentation. There's been a lot of buildup. Thank you. Welcome, and thank you for your patience. You have been very patient. And thank you. I'm sure I will not forget.
 be able to comply with the excellent presentation. We're talking about a status report for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Lagoon Reconstruction Phase 3 and 4. The Triangle Lagoon is a very important part of the treatment process at Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. Digested solids from the treatment process are stored in the lagoon
 until they can be dried and trucked to eastern Oregon where they are used as fertilizer to improve the dry land grasses used for feeding cattle. The lagoons have been in service for over 40 years. We are rehabilitating the lagoon and installing a new polyethylene liner system to assure 40 more years of continuous service.
 Just to kind of put you in context of where we're located, at the top of the slide are Smith and Bybee Lakes, and they lie to the west of the site. At the bottom of the slide is Heron Lakes Golf Club, lying to the east of the site. And on the left-hand side of the slide is the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, and that lies south of the lagoon site.
 We are reconstructing the lagoon in phases and this has been going on for several years, starting in 2002. It is necessary to do it in phases in order to keep at least a portion of the lagoon available at all times and in continuous operation. The current phase is the lining of the North Lagoon, which is about 15 acres of the total 39-acre site.
 The South Lagoon, which at this point you can see has no water in it, was completed in 2014. One thing that we learned when completing the Southern Lagoon in Phase 2 was that there is extreme variability in both the volume and the consistency of the biosolids within the lagoon. That is about the most sanitized version of that statement I've ever heard. Laughter
 Well, it gets worse. Here's several pictures showing the difference in consistency. And you can see that the biosolids vary from a fluid consistency to that of a dried cake that you could almost walk on. The volume, I mentioned the volume also varied considerably. And that is because the lagoons are in continuous operation. We're constantly pumping biosolids into the lagoon
 and then dredging biosolids back out of the lagoon in order to further dry it and place it in trucks for trucking out to eastern Oregon. The presentation for the authorizing ordinance I'm sorry. The presentation for the authorizing ordinance for this contract was given to Council in June of 2015. Scott Gibson described the likelihood of the wide variation
 in cost that was associated with that variation we expected in both consistency and volume of biosolids. Scott described that he expected the cost of this work would vary from $9.3 million to as much as $13.6 million. So here we are, we're a little bit more than a year into the construction project,
 and have completed work to further assess the amount of variability or the actual variability. We've made adjustments to the contract to reflect what we've discovered in that year. To put it in context, here's a comparison. On the left-hand side, you see the engineer's estimate. This is a projected estimate based on our current estimate.
 what we've learned about the volume of materials in the lagoon. The second bar from the left is our current contract, including the changes that we're talking about here that have already occurred, increasing the contract by about $1.5 million. The third bar from the left is our projection of the second bidder's bid from way back in 2015.
 And to the very far right is our projection of what it would cost had we just decided to rebid the project rather than work with the contractor on this. So there are still unknown conditions that exist. We will still be pumping into and out of the lagoon. We've got two and a half to three more years of work out there, so there is still some risk.
 One of the risks we're concerned about is the subgrade, how soft the soils are when we get down to the bottom of the lagoon. The last thing we have to do before we can start using the lagoon again is to put in that polyethylene plastic liner. So we're taking steps to try and minimize the amount of variation we have before the end of the contract period.
 We're making continual estimates, re-estimates of the volume of biosolids ahead of us. We're looking at different options for where the biosolids are disposed of. And we're looking at alternative methods for treating the bottom of the lagoon, if indeed we get there and it's too soft to construct the liner on. Just without getting too technical because it might be a bad answer, but why is the amount of biosolid variable?
 As I said, we're constantly pumping into it and we're constantly dredging out of it. The biosolids, if you think of what happens if you were to pump a bunch of semi-fluid material into a pond, what you have is several feet of almost clear water there.
 And then it gets considerably stiffer and thicker with depth. So where they're dredging, what portion of the pond they're dredging in, they're either taking out thin stuff or they're taking out very thick stuff. Thank you. That presentation got better with time. So thank you for your patience. Thank you for your patience and your hard work. Is there any public testimony on this item?
 You had signed up weeks ago, Star. Did you still want to? I guess. Very good. Colleagues, any further? Me and Mimi left. Sorry. Yeah. So colleagues, any further discussion? Second. We have a motion and we have a second. Please call the roll.
 Thank you for that outstanding presentation, and I think you've made it crystal clear that this is an area of our work where we can make best guesstimates about certain of the variables, but because of the conditions, it's very difficult for us to know really what we're dealing with until we're essentially in the area and we're doing the excavation.
 And I appreciate also the chart that showed the various alternative approaches and making clear that the approach that we've taken is still a cost-effective one. So thank you. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Ritz. I hope you won't be offended if I say that was surprisingly interesting. Good job on both the presentation and on explaining it so carefully. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you. Aye. The ordinance is adopted or the report is accepted. Next item, please.
 Item 512, vacate a portion of Northeast Cooch Street east of Northeast 3rd Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Good morning. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. And colleagues, are you okay if we go to a one?
 Okay, great. Thank you. I'm Carl Aruta, a right-of-way agent with the Bureau of Transportation. This ordinance is for a street vacation of two small pieces of northeast Cooch Street, just east of northeast 3rd Avenue.
 near the Burnside-Cooch couplet. This is a little, when the couplet was created for Cooch and Burnside, this is a little stub of Cooch Street that connects to 3rd Avenue. And this proposal was initiated in 2015 by one of the adjacent property owners, Block 75 LLC, which owns the property just north of Cooch.
 comments for the street vacation were solicited from the usual city bureaus, other government agencies, utilities neighborhood associations and the local business association. There were no objections that were received last August there was a
 change that was made in connection with the street vacation where the City Council authorized PBOT to limit this little piece of cooch to only bicycles and pedestrians closing this small portion to vehicle traffic.
 And so as a result of that approval, the street stub was redesigned and modified. And so the street vacation was expanded to vacate slightly more land on either side of the newly designed bike and ped area.
 And then in February of this year, the Planning and Sustainability Commission gave their recommendation for approval of the street vacation.
 And so then based on the ownership of the area, the north piece that's being vacated will most likely become the property of the adjacent owner, Block 75 LLC. And the small piece on the south side will most likely revert to the property owner just south of Cooch, which is Block 76 LLC.
 And I have any other questions. I know that we had a couple of my colleagues ask some very good questions last time this thing came up. I just want to make two observations. One is that I remain a couplet skeptic in terms of what we've tried to do. We've –
 This is an audacious plan in which we've reengineered an entire set of traffic patterns, and I'll let this ripen a little more before we make our judgments.
 But the one concern I do have is that as you're heading west on Cooch and you're now going into a very dense area, because there are now three buildings where there were once four, we are putting traffic, pedestrians, and bikes into a very congested area. And –
 I have already noticed some bad behavior as people navigate that turn. It is an unusual turn. It's two very significant turns, one left and one right. And I appreciate that we've created kind of a dedicated bike area by elevating the street. But I worry that in our zeal to re-engineer this whole thing, we've created a vulnerable –
 and it doesn't necessarily relate to the street vacation because I understand the logic of that. And I actually think that if traffic on Cooch thought they could go through this street, I think it would create more problems. But I do think this is going to become a reasonably dangerous intersection. And we also have a new building that's going up, which is –
 It seems to be built right to the street line. I mean, the setback on that building is unusually modest. So I want to just state a reservation. And I think some of those concerns was why PBOT made the proposal last August to close that little piece off to vehicle traffic. No, and I'm going to support this. But I think there's other challenges we're going to face in that very constrained area.
 Commissioner Fish, Andrew Abbey, project manager. I would just note that one of the things that council approved last August was a scope change where we raised the bike lane on Coutte Street going around that tight turn, and we've gotten good feedback on that fix. So, yes, it's a very challenging area, but the initial feedback has been positive in terms of what we've done. We made the scope change last August, as you recall, to eliminate the right hook
 that otherwise would have occurred if we had vehicle turning from Cooch Street onto Cooch Court. Okay. I'm going to support this. Thank you. Good. Thank you. Any further questions at this point? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Hearing none, then this is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next item, please. Item 513, grant a temporary revocable permit to Portland General Electric Company doing business as World Trade Center properties for electric vehicle charging station services. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, Jennifer Lee, Program Manager at Community Technology in the Revenue Division. Thanks, Jennifer. The ordinance before you would grant a temporary revocable permit to allow electric car charging stations in the right-of-way along Southwest Salmon between Southwest 1st and 2nd.
 The charging stations are already there. This is just another agreement because the original agreement expires in August. This TRP will be for a limited duration of up to one year. The city and PGE have negotiated a franchise agreement for a five-year term, which would supersede and replace the original grant of authority from 2015. Thank you.
 However, because of the time required to complete the formal franchising process required by the city charter, PGE has asked the city council to consider granting a temporary revocable permit under substantially similar terms as the new franchise agreement. The TRP will allow PGE to proceed immediately under the terms of the negotiated franchise agreement. We anticipate that the new franchise agreement will come before council for consideration later this summer, probably in late June.
 So I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Very good. What have you learned in the last two years during this trial process? What's worked? What hasn't worked? Ben Walters with the city attorney's office. One of the things that we've learned is that PBOT and PGE as the permittee need to coordinate on –
 other permitting activities in the vicinity of these charging stations because we'll have folks coming in to do work at the World Trade Center and getting a permit from PBOT to park in these facilities for construction.
 purposes, et cetera. And sometimes that's at PGE's request, and sometimes it's for tenants in the building. And so PBOT and PGE have learned quite a bit during this time period and have put in place some better coordinating processes.
 programs for making sure that these spots are not otherwise taken during the day when people may need them for charging purposes. The other thing about the franchise that will be coming forward and that's embodied in this permit is that PGE
 had originally proposed this one location for charging stations is because of changes in state law that have occurred. PG is contemplating proposing charging station locations elsewhere in the city, and the franchise on a looking forward basis does contemplate that that will be occurring. Very good. Thank you. I appreciate it. Commissioner? I didn't understand the financial impact statement. Okay.
 Do electrical vehicles being charged to their owners pay for using that station? They currently aren't, but I understand that PG is looking at doing that going forward. So they're paying $3,000, which is up from $1,000, which is the estimated loss if it was just a regular station.
 Well, the $1,000 was the franchise fee that was negotiated in 2015 when PGE first put these in. At the time, PGE was not anticipating charging for the use of the electricity at the charging stations. Okay.
 So it was a nominal franchise fee. But presumably these stations are taking up meter spaces that otherwise would be paid for. So is that what this $1,000 and now $3,000 represents? No, PGE is paying PBOT separately for the foregone revenues. This is just for the administrative costs of overseeing the franchise.
 So where are they going to get them? So they are going to start charging? They do anticipate starting to charge for the electricity provided through the charging stations, yes. And will that come to council or not? No, that will not be coming back before council. Yes, that's anticipated in the permit as proposed. Do we know how much they're planning to charge? No, we do not. That would be a market-driven decision. Thank you.
 Further questions? Great. Any public testimony on this item? Yes, I have two people signed up. Shedrick Wilkins and Rick Durst. Very good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I support electric cars, and what's even better, I like the solar cell rays on the two parking garages on Montgomery Park. My mother used to work at Montgomery Park from 1950 to 1956. She was like a clerk or something.
 I've been in the building and I went crazy. In other words, I'm trying to imply that you could take the solar cells and use them to power up electric cars. And I have this interesting story. When in 1990, when I was a student at PSU, I met Dennis Hayes with Mayor Bud Clark and had dinner. That's the best dinner I ever had. He founded Earth Day in 1970, by the way. And I said, we need something like the Space Needle.
 You know, and I've been saying this for five years at City Council. Instead of building one, just put a restaurant on the sixth floor of the Montgomery Park so you could see both the panels from an elevated position. Most solar panels you can't see. So the funny one, I went to Montgomery Park last month. I went up to the sixth floor.
 and went crazy and said there ought to be a restaurant here like the Space Needle, and they're all going like this. But anyway, it was a neat experience because you can see them from an elevated point of view. They ought to put a sign on top of the roof. And on July 19th, I'm going to give a talk on that idea about putting a restaurant there and call it the Montgomery Park Solar Energy Station or something like that. So it's something I might get some money out of this.
 Great. And by the way, I don't think that's crazy at all. I happen to have the fortune of being there the day they flipped the switch on those solar arrays, and we were up on that top floor, which is currently vacant. And you're right. It's a stunning view of the city. And you see the solar arrays both on the parking lot as well as on the old facility. And it is an impressive array. It's huge. You can't see the east side. That's correct. That's correct. We're gone now, huh?
 Good afternoon. So I'm Rick Durst with Portland General Electric, and I was just signed up just in case there were questions or anything that needed to be answered. I think we just need to thank you. Thanks for your hard work on this, and thanks –
 for being a supportive partner and working with us over the last two years on the initial demonstration and continuing the good work going forward. We really appreciate it. Okay, well, Commissioner Fish, did you have a comment? Do you have any idea how much you're going to charge for this? We have some proposals into the Public Utilities Commission for expanding and having additional charging infrastructure, and I don't recall off the top of my head exactly what that is right now, but it's roughly...
 $5 a charge for the quick charging station or $3.50 a charge for level two. And then there's an added fee during on-peak times, on-peak electricity times from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m.
 And that's what we're going to be proposing. It's going to be something that's going to be fluid because if you look at the market out there right now, there are some places that charge $10 to charge, and there are some that charge just by the kilowatt hour. So there's multiple ways that people are charging, and we're picking something kind of in the middle of that right now. We're going to see how that affects things. People haven't been having to pay a fee except for parking right now.
 You know, any time that happens, you'll see that you start charging a fee and usage is going to drop off, but eventually it will come back. The same thing happened when the Ecotality put charging stations in at, you see them at Fred Meyers and Burgerville and other places around.
 they were free for the first year or so while they figured out their payment mechanism. And once they did, they started charging a fee. Again, it dropped off to about half the usage, but then quickly within a few months came back up. And as more electric cars come around and more people have a need for charging, it will do the same thing again. Commissioner Saltzman, are we planning to do something like that with the city charging stations? Excuse me.
 I'm not really sure. Yes, obviously it's a brave new world, and potentially we could add a tax on top of it so we get some of the gas. We're not getting gas taxes. We could perhaps recoup with something like this. So as part of the franchise agreement, we do have to pay a portion of the revenues that we're collecting there, and that's what the franchise agreement is for. Thank you. Okay, vote. Very good. Call the roll, please.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Item 514, increase on-call contract with Scott Edwards Architecture LLP by $400,000 and add qualified subconsultants to provide owner's representative services for the Providence Park Stadium expansion project. Good afternoon. Aye.
 Yes, hi. Carl Lyle, Spectator Venues Program with the Office of Management and Finance. So this is the next step in moving forward with an expansion of Providence Park Stadium. You'll remember last week you approved a resolution in general support of the project, and that kind of set in motion a series of different things.
 This is the first step, and essentially it amends an existing on-call contract we have with an architectural engineering team, and that allows us to begin using that team as the owner's representatives on the project and start engaging with the project architects and making sure that the city's concerns and issues and desires and goals are being represented as that design work proceeds. So...
 As you can imagine, the city's goals and desires for the project don't always line up exactly with those of the operators of the facility. We're the long-term owners. We have some slightly different perspectives. So we really want to get this team on board soon to be able to engage in that process as they move forward. It is an on-call contract, an existing contract. We will be adding some subcontractors to it, which you can see here, which specifically give us access to –
 stadium design experts, a team out of Denver who's worked on different stadiums before, will be a valuable addition to the team, so that's really important. It also gives us access to a skilled construction project management team, which will be very important later on in the project if they get to construction.
 So it's an on-call contract. We are under no obligation to spend this if the project doesn't move forward, but it gives us access to engage now. It's an emergency because design work is proceeding as we speak, and we want to make sure that we're at those tables with the right experts.
 And so the next steps in this process would be coming back in June. Those would be a term sheet, which would be a time to get back into the deal terms and questions about the exemption on ticket revenue and those things that we discussed last week. So that's really not involved here. And then another piece that would come back in June would be a competitive bid exemption.
 So do we have an owner's representative attorney's team? I remember when we did the first conversion that we had outside. Yes, we do have outside counsel. We're working through the city attorney's office with that, and so that has been going on as well. And will that contract come back to counsel? My understanding is it doesn't need to come to counsel. Those are existing. I don't know. Look at the city attorney's office for how that works. But that's being managed through them, and I don't think counsel approval is required for that.
 I would have to get more information, which we can get to your office. Yeah, thank you. I would like to know that because this $400,000 is not being covered by the people wanting to do the renovations. True. So the discussion we had last week about this being done with private money is not happening. And so I was wondering also how much we're going to be paying in attorney's fees, which again would factor into the whole ticket tax and concern about the future of the facility. Yes. So will this –
 contracts be guided, the architecture firm, will they be guided by the Office of Management and Finance and really overseen very carefully? Yes, exactly. They are our owner's representatives. And in the city's role as owner of the facility, they will be our owner's representatives reviewing the design and construction as they proceed to make sure that our ends of the agreements and our expectations are being met.
 And I hope they'll also consult with Development Services and Planning and the Design Review Commission so that it does turn out to be the kind of facility that we can all be proud of. Absolutely. I mean, we want to be careful and make sure that the burden of the permitting process and the design review process is on the applicant, which is the operator. So we are not going to take that on, but we will certainly participate in that as it represents our interests. That's an important clarification. Thank you. My understanding is the applicant is already in discussions with design commission
 review commission, so I think slapping an emergency clause on this makes sense so that we have maximum flexibility. So thank you. Great. Any further questions? Any public testimony? Yes, we have two people. Robert West and Star Stauffer. Come on up. Yes, my name is Robert West. I'm with the Police 911. And I wanted to testify last week, but other things happened. My concern is that they put a
 10-year thing on property taxes so they don't have to pay property taxes. Mr. West, that's not what they did, and that's not what's before us right now. And basically what it is is the city's – now all of a sudden they're saying, well, we need more money. We don't need just the property tax exemption, but we need the city to come out and have more money. Mr. West, there is no property tax exemption in this deal.
 There is no, we have not granted them a property tax exemption. Let's let him get through his 130. And as long as the city, the city shouldn't be paying this kind of money for projects like this. That affects only a small group of people. The city should be spending $400,000 on projects for everyone, fixing streets.
 neighborhood development, stuff like that, not sports stadiums. Fair enough. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Star Stauffer. I'm not going to – I don't know if I'll take my entire minute and a half, but I'm concerned – I want to just – I want to clarify. Excuse me. This $400 is to keep them basically on retainer in case we are to need them.
 For consulting fees. Amanda's shaking her head. No, you're nodding your head yes. What this is is this allows us to hire subcontractor consultants who represent our city's interests in these ongoing discussions. So this is basically a $400 allowance to utilize to hire these people. So what happens to the rest of the money that's not utilized? It comes back.
 Okay. And the reason I ask that is because I'm concerned that $400,000 can be put into an allowance for retaining architecture consultants and other subcontractors and subconsultants and all these things.
 but yet, I mean, that's extraordinarily higher than we've even allocated or approved or come to an agreement on as far as the houseless budget. And I know that during this project, the houseless community is going to be affected. So I'm wondering how that is going to be, how can you justify this kind of a budget to,
 keep these people on retainer when we may not even use them. And yet it's such a struggle to get any money for the houseless or any projects going for the houseless that's sustainable and long-term, making the streets safer for our houseless, investing in tiny homes. I mean, I know you guys get tired of us coming up here and saying the same thing over and over and over, but you have to understand that when we see numbers like this,
 And yet we're having these kind of arguments, and I'm almost done. When we're having these kind of arguments about allocating money to people that are vulnerable in our community, this is just to retain people, which means that we have the money to spend on this. We're putting it in an allowance. We may not even use it all. So I'm proposing that I know I can't stop you from putting this money into an account. I get that. Whatever money is not utilized for this...
 Let's talk about utilizing that leftover money for the houseless. Let's put that into a plan to utilize for the houseless. It goes into the spectator fund. Specifically the houseless that are displaced by this particular project, whether it be sweeps or just not even being able to be there because of construction concerns or anything like that. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any other public testimony? That's all.
 That's all who signed up. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The contract is approved. And if you'll endeavor, we have one more item. Colleagues, can you stay for one more item? Okay. Good. Item 515, authorized revenue bonds in an amount sufficient to provide not more than $20 million to finance space in a project to be located at Southwest 4th Avenue and Southwest Montgomery Street.
 Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. For your consideration, is an ordinance authorizing a financing plan to fund the city's share of the Jasmine Block project?
 The Jasmine Block project will be a joint development with Portland State University, Oregon Health and Science University, and Portland Community College. While full details of the project are unknown at this point, the total building cost is estimated to be approximately $100 million for a 200,000 square foot building. Thank you.
 Per Resolution 37274, City Council instructed the Office of Finance and Administration to work with the Portland Development Commission and Portland State University to develop the occupancy and a financing plan. The ordinance in front of you would authorize the City to issue an amount of up to $20 million to finance the cost of acquiring approximately 30,000 square feet of space in the building.
 This ordinance is intended to provide evidence to PSU of the city's commitment for local funding as they go to the state in search of additional funding. The current plan is for PSU to develop the Jasmine Block, which is owned by PDC. PDC has agreed to convey the land to PSU for the development with an agreement that the project will include a certain amount of tax-generating retail space.
 We anticipate that BPS will occupy the newly constructed space. Relocating BPS will allow for most, if not all, of BDS employees currently in outpatient space to be moved to the 1900 building. We will be back in front of you as the project develops, including seeking council approval of the development agreement between PSU and the city.
 No bonds will be sold until the council takes official action to authorize the city's participation in a project such as approving the development agreement The ordinance includes a statement that no bonds will be issued until council approves the project and the development Agreement I would like to pair Johansson to provide specifics about the financing plan I've married I'm not sure we need the financing plan at this point because my understanding in the briefing we got is that this is
 action would then demonstrate to PSU and the legislature our binding intent to bring the local match, which in turn allows them to be competitive for the lottery-backed money or the money that they're seeking from the legislature.
 It's slightly out of sequence, but it is in order for them to secure their state financing, after which you would come back to us to present the other details of this transaction in the ordinary course. Is that correct? Commissioner Fitch, absolutely. And no bonds will be issued. So I don't think, Mayor, we need to get into the details. No, and this isn't even the authorization of those bonds. Right.
 But it actually does give you a head start. There's a lot of paperwork and number crunching involved with the issuance of bonds, so this obviously gives you some leeway to begin that process. So we're putting in up to $20 million? Yes.
 How much is OHSU putting in and how much is PSU putting in and how much is PCC putting in? Commissioner Saltzman, I do not know the specifics in terms of how much each one of those are putting in, but if it's based on the amount of square foot and if I was going to do the math, I can tell you the square footage. PSU is looking at roughly about 60,000 square foot of that building. Oregon Health Sciences is looking roughly about another 60,000. PCC is looking at 30,000, and then we're looking at 30,000 square feet.
 So if each 30,000 square foot increment was $20 million, which is what our share is, it seems like we're overpaying relative to the partners for a $100 million building. Did you say it was $100 million? It's $100 million. So we're putting in at a rate that would make this building $120, $150. That's correct. So it seems like we're overpaying our share, and I guess I'm wondering why. I don't know if you have the answer, but...
 No, no, I think that's a good question, Commissioner Saltzman. And so our number is roughly somewhere between $15 to $20 million. We're estimating at this time in terms of construction costs, it's roughly about $15.6 to $15.9 million. There's additional room for contingency and also for tenant improvements. And so there's going to be monies over and beyond our original construction costs. They will help us to pay for specific improvements.
 for our 30,000 square feet, and I expect that the other partners will be putting money in for their specific tenant improvements too. So this money doesn't include tenant improvements? The $20 million dollars are to us. Oh, it does? Yes. Okay. So it includes the tenant improvements. Right. That's separate from the construction costs. That's correct.
 And to be clear, you will not bring any of these to market until you have come back for the approval of this city council with all of those questions answered? Yes, Mayor. Okay. Yeah, I guess I just, I would expect OHSU, PSU, PCC to be paying the same amount to this project as we are. That's correct. Relative to the proportion of space we're taking. That's correct. And since OHSU and PSU are taking twice the amount of space we're taking, I expect to see their shares to be twice what we're putting in.
 Absolutely, to be fair. Good point. Okay. Great. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. This is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. We are adjourned. Thank you. We'll see you all at 2. Meeting of the City of Portland Budget Committee. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Seltzman.
 Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. The usual statement, the purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we ask everybody please to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. Thank you.
 If you testify, individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're here representing an organization, please disclose that as well. Typically, people have three minutes to testify. From time to time, we're required to shorten that just given time constraints. Okay.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed. Personal attacks and insults levied against city or council staff, many of whom are required to testify.
 As a condition of their employment is not tolerated, people who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, you'll be asked to leave. If you are asked to leave and you don't do so, you are subject to arrest for trespassing. If you like something, thumbs up. If you don't like something, thumbs down is typically enough. So here we are at that time of year. Andrew, welcome.
 Thank you, Mayor. Andrew Scott, City Budget Director. And I'll just give a quick overview of what we're going to do today, and then we'll dive right into it for those of you who have been through it before and those who have not. So the first thing we're going to do today is hold a hearing on the possible uses of state revenue sharing. This is something that state law requires us to do as part of our approved budget process. So we will do that and take testimony on those proposed uses of state revenue sharing.
 I'm now opening a hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. This hearing is being held by the City Council of Portland, Oregon, in compliance with the provisions of the State Revenue Sharing Regulations, ORS 221.770. It's to allow citizens to comment on the possible use of these funds in conjunction with the annual budget process.
 As proposed for council adoption, the fiscal year 2017-18 budget anticipates receipts totaling $17,485,117 from state revenue sharing. As has been the case in prior years, it's proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support fire prevention and police patrol services. Is there anyone here today that wishes to be heard on this subject? Come on up.
 We have two. Question. Is this the testimony that we signed up for outside, or is this a declaration?
 There's actually multiple opportunities. This is specific to the revenue-sharing portion of the budget. Because of state law, we go through this sort of arcane episode-by-episode process. So this is specific to the $17-plus million that's through state revenue-sharing. If you want to testify on that, you're welcome now. Can I testify on both? Yes. You're not precluded from testifying on both. That's correct.
 Just so these guys don't have to, let's bring up one at a time. Come on up and then we'll bring Star up next. Thanks, Sarah. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs, and this state budget thing kind of blew me. I totally caught off guard that this is a possible funding revenue for fire and police.
 Is it established how this money is going to be split? What goes to what division and what specific services will this money be earmarked toward? Or is it just going into a general fund to be spent whatever way funds are being used?
 Fire and rescue and police want to spend it. That's the question I have because I didn't see this one coming. I came to testify actually on city budget. I'm like...
 What? So will those questions be answered in the process of the presenters presenting the information? Good question, Sarah. And first of all, again, I apologize for sort of the arcane nature of the hearing, but we have to follow state law very, very closely. I'm not angry, Mayor, at the fact you've got to follow the law. So with regard to the specific expenditures, the proposed budget, which is available online, has line-by-litem requirements.
 proposed expenditures in both the police and the fire bureau budget. Whoever is doing closed caption, could they please post that website listing so people can see it as well, please? Very good. Excellent. And that's on the city budget website. I appreciate it. And just for the record, because it's a new program,
 which is pretty cool. You can actually, if you hold your cursor over the line item, it'll open a page with a full narrative on each line item. Is that under the open data website? That's correct. All right, thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it, sir. Good afternoon. Yes, Star Stauffer. Yes.
 As far as whatever, I have not looked at the proposed budget online for the Portland Police and what they're requesting. If this is still open to debate as far as the allocation of these funds, I would like to propose that some of the funds that are going to the Portland Police be reallocated towards the families of the victims of police shootings to
 to help get them back on their feet and pay, to reimburse them for funeral services, wage losses, time lost, and not only that, counseling for them and their families.
 I think that would be the sensitive and sensible thing to do. It would create an opportunity to reach out to that community and perhaps start bridging that gap of mistrust and anger towards the city of Portland right now. Not only that, I'm not really comfortable giving
 the Portland police any more money considering they act like impetuous children who don't have to follow the law. So that's my proposal. I'm going to keep it short to that. Please consider allocating some of this money without dragging these families through court to these families who have lost children and loved ones to police violence here in this city. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, Ted. My name is Antigonus Jarrett and I've given testimony to you before. I
 have witnessed extreme police violence using military-style equipment, such as tear gas canisters and ultrasonic disturbance that makes your stomach hurt. And I worry when I see police budgets go up that the reason that we're increasing the budget is that we're going to be purchasing more military-style equipment
 And as a pastor, I didn't happen to come dressed up today, but as a pastor, I feel that I have to speak out on behalf of all of the people that I see who are injured by these weapons. And I have to wonder why we have to use them and why we have to allocate money for them. Because in my mind, that money could be spent in much better ways, and we don't need to be purchasing military-style equipment for a city.
 Thank you. And specifically a sanctuary city. That's a good point. A sanctuary city where people are supposed to feel safe under our care. People are supposed to feel safe under my care, and I don't know how I'm supposed to ensure that safety when I'm afraid of the police and I'm afraid that they're going to be spending more money on buying more weapons. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Any other public testimony on this item? Any further comments from my colleagues on this particular item?
 I'm now closing this hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. Great. Thank you, Mayor. So at this point, we're going to move into the actual approved budget phase of today's proceedings. And let me just walk through sort of the run of show because there are multiple steps that we need to follow in terms of complying with state law.
 So last week we had a work session to talk about the approved budget changes. The mayor released his proposed budget earlier in the month. We talked about then some potential changes council wanted to see. And then the mayor filed the approved budget, which is what you have before you, that incorporated some of those changes. And so the first thing we're going to need to do is put that...
 because you're acting as the Budget Committee, put those approved budget changes as filed in the change memo onto the table. So there needs to be a motion and a second. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a motion, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on the motion? No.
 Great. And actually, we don't need to vote on that. We just needed to make sure it was put on the table. At this point, and I'm happy to go through any of the details. We did walk through those at the work session, so I wasn't going to go into a lot of detail on what those changes were. But at this point, we can entertain any additional amendments that the mayor or council may have. Each amendment that is brought forward today needs to have a motion and a second.
 And then we will take individual votes on each amendment as we go through. Andrew, we have a cheat sheet that's been handed out with the updated list of amendments. Is it your recommendation we just take them in sequence?
 I think that is an easy way to do it. Correct. Although I have an amendment I'd like to offer that is not on any list. That's right. And I think there may be some additional amendments as well. So maybe starting with the... Excuse me. I just want to clarify. I believe the procedure is they moved and seconded, but we don't vote until after we've heard public testimony. Okay.
 Actually, so what we do is each one is approved and seconded, and we can also put them all on the table for discussion, but each one gets an individual vote first before public testimony. At that point, because what the public is here to testify on is the approved budget prior to approval, and so these amendments need to be added to what is already essentially filed.
 and then at that point after we have approved after council has approved the budget adjustments in attachments B, C and D as amended we open it up for public testimony on the approved budget in totality But there hasn't been an opportunity for the public to testify on any of the amendments yet so why would we vote on them before we've heard public testimony?
 This is the procedure that we followed by state law. And so, you know, there is public testimony on those amendments. After public testimony, council can make additional changes or amendments to the budget. This is a procedural issue because what we need to do is, because you're acting as the budget committee and not as city council right now, and we need to get the approved budget changes officially on the table so that the public can see what those are and then testify on them. Commissioner Fritz?
 You have in past budget years, I believe, raised this same question appropriately. But I also, my recollection is after the testimony, we've also come back and made the adjustments. And it's been explained to us that this is the formal mechanism of placing it before the public. So then why would we not just vote yes on all of them and then vote on them all again after testimony? So do we have to complete the-
 So if I understand, Director Scott, you're saying we take the motion and the second and we vote on them prior to public discussion? Prior to hearing from the public, right. There is council discussion on these to determine whether there's a –
 We'd have to take a vote again to withdraw something, correct? Correct. Right now, acting as the Budget Committee, you are making decisions. A majority of the Budget Committee makes decisions about what to include in the approved budget. So that's the process we're going through right now, as Commissioner Fish laid out. Is there support from at least three members of the Budget Committee to even put it on the table for the public to essentially comment on?
 Very good. Does that answer your question, Commissioner? I agree with you. It's unorthodox compared to the way we typically do business. Well, I just want to – what I need to know, do I need to be on the winning side of the vote which is on the table in order to move to reconsider so that we can then vote against it or vice versa? No. No.
 In your normal parliamentary procedure, you have to be on the winning side in order to be able to move to reconsider any particular item. So it would seem like if we...
 even might want to reconsider it later, we should vote yes, even though we actually want no. Can I jump in here for a second? Commissioner Fish. This is not a normal parliamentary procedure because, as Andrew explained, we are discharging a bill from the Budget Committee to the full council for testimony. And my understanding, Andrew, correct me if I'm wrong, is that we have the freedom to amend it any way we choose after the public testimony. Great conversation. What's legal counsel's opinion?
 I will let you know in just a minute. Okay, keep stalling. So I just want to know, maybe by counsel's assent, that if I want to change a vote after hearing public testimony, I would be allowed to move to do so even if I didn't happen to support it in the first place or vice versa? Yes. After public testimony, any member of the Budget Committee could bring forward another amendment, either to add an additional item or remove something that had previously been put in. Thank you. Any objection? Great. Then we don't.
 If you find something that prohibits that, let me know. But in the meanwhile, we'll make that the operational agreement up here. Thank you. I will do so. So with that then, colleagues, what I'd recommend, since we do have the cheat sheet, and Commissioner Saltzman and I at least have additional amendments that we'll need to bring forward.
 I'll go through the cheat sheet first, if you don't mind, and we can just take the votes up or down on each of these in order. Does that work with people? So the person who's moving them would explain to the public what they are. Exactly. Great. So I will start since mine happened to be first. This is the Build Portland Amendment in conversations with a number of folks. I've come back with a...
 Amendment to the language of the footnote, that was Attachment D, which I'm proposing that we change. And the main changes here are highlighting for Council the general fund forecast for future debt service costs as soon as the next debt issuance falls within that five-year rolling forecast window.
 It requires that there be a discussion with the council on the costs and benefits of proceeding with the Build Portland program. It also includes an express intent to hold a work session during the summer of 2017 to discuss the Build Portland program. And in the fall of 2017, I will, as mayor, present to the council a binding resolution to formalize the city's commitment to Build Portland.
 So that is it. Legal counsel, do I need to read the whole thing into the record, or is it sufficient to have it on this piece of paper? I'm sorry. I was focused on the other thing. I'll read it. Do you have amendments? As part of the Build Portland initiative started in fiscal year 2017-18 budget, the plan includes a schedule of periodic debt issuances for infrastructure, repair, rehabilitation, and replacement, period. Counsel directs the city budget office to highlight for counsel the general fund forecast
 the future debt service costs as soon as the next proposed debt issuance falls within the five-year forecast time frame, and discuss with Council the costs and benefits of proceeding with the program. Council expresses its intent to hold a work session during the summer of 2017 to discuss Build Portland. In the fall of 2017, the Mayor will present to Council a binding resolution to formalize the City's commitment to Build Portland.
 Portland. Mayor, I'm going to second this. Okay. Commissioner Fritz just beat you out there. So it has been moved. It has been seconded. Is there further discussion or questions on this particular amendment?
 Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. So this outlines the Mayor's plan for using money that will come back into the tax rolls after the urban renewal districts are finished and using that money to build infrastructure. But the amendment says that we're going to have a further public discussion about that before we move forward with it. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The amendment is on – well, the amendment is actually approved. Colleagues, there's two other quick ones I'd like to put on the table, and since I have the mic, I might as well go it. First of all, taxes returned from urban renewal. This is striking the entirety of Section under Attachment D listed as taxes returned from urban renewal, $1,000.
 given that we have just approved this amendment, this simply swaps out the language that was there previously. We have a motion. We have a second. Any further discussion on this highly scintillating amendment? Seeing none, call the roll. Fish. Mayor, just so, again, the public is clear on this. We are affirming.
 a policy recommendation that the mayor has made to, in effect, use some of the returning urban renewal money to fund an ambitious plan to get a handle on our backlog of infrastructure maintenance. And the mayor is sharpening the two pieces that appear in this budget and is pledging to do a process this summer which will result in a resolution which will lay out the long-term vision. And I strongly support that. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. And last but not least, this is a motion to amend Attachment D, specifically the budget note, achieve full cost recovery for police secondary employment.
 The Council directs the Portland Police Bureau to implement a rate model that achieves full cost recovery for the secondary employment hours worked by police officers that provide private benefit to a specific business, property, or individual. The cost recovery model shall include both direct and indirect costs, and full cost recovery rates shall be completely phased in by fiscal year 2021.
 I think it is self-explanatory, but the bottom line is I don't believe we should be in the business of subsidizing the use of our police force for private sector organizational or individual needs. Second. We have a motion and a second by Commissioner Fritz. Is there any further discussion before we call the roll? Seeing none, please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? So Mayor, as in your role as Police Commissioner, I'd like to know why this information was not given to me on previous occasions when we've approved the secondary employment policy, where I was specifically told that it did have full cost recovery. So I'd like to know from...
 the Bureau what the difference is. That is a fair question, and I do not have the answer for that. And it may be that there is currently full cost recovery, but I want to dot that I and cross that T and make it the policy of the City Council that there will be full cost recovery and that we will hold the leadership of the Bureau accountable for achieving that cost recovery. That's a great explanation, because that has been my request on the previous times that I've approved it. I. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Next up, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I have two amendments. The first would reverse the 5% cut that appears in the Mayor's filed budget for Open Signal, which provides community digital media and literacy services. Second.
 This would be paid for as a general fund contingency. Commissioner Fish moves Commissioner Udaly's seconds very, very quickly. Any further? And just for our audience, Open Signal, formerly Portland Community Media, has a building on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. They are also the wonderful people that film these meetings and other public meetings and provide services through cable television.
 I have found that there is no camera angle that makes me look good, so I won't hold it against them. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. So this money is coming out of the reduction to the general fund contingency. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Mayor, I have a second amendment. Okay.
 I have an amendment number two, which would amend Attachment D, specifically the budget note that refers to the Joint Office of Homeless Services Funding Conversation, and it would read as follows. Title, Joint Office of Homeless Services Funding Conversation.
 Council directs the City Budget Office to coordinate a work session to discuss the City's role in supporting the efforts of the Joint Office of Homeless Services, which will include a discussion of current and future funding levels, insert, including funding sustainability. Second. So Commissioner Fish moves. I'll give it to Commissioner Udaly as a second with my enthusiastic harmony. Thank you.
 Any further discussion before we call the roll? Seeing none, call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor. My first one is relatively simple. It's to amend the budget notes regarding reporting from Portland Parks and Recreation to be more realistic into the time it would take to hire a consultant to do an objective outside evaluation of the funding for Portland Parks and Recreation over the long term. So the long-term financial plan...
 Budget Note would now say, Council directs Portland Parks and Recreation to develop a long-term financial plan which specifically outlines options to address system development charge-funded system expansion and long-term major maintenance needs. This plan should outline alternative funding options and possible service trade-offs if new sources for operations and maintenance and major maintenance needs are not available.
 A status report shall be submitted to Council along with the Bureau's financial year 2018-19 requested budget. The long-term financial plan should be submitted to Council by December of 2018. I'll second that. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further conversation or questions prior to the calling of the roll? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you. Of course, if we can get it done faster, we will. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Assuming that I might get the Bureau back, I should have said that.
 Thank you. My amendment number two is much more complicated, so bear with me, please. The citizens and voters of Portland passed Measure 26-180 last year, which raised approximately $3 million a year from a tax on recreational marijuana sales at 3%. And so when I was taking this measure to the voters, we...
 and Saltzman Commissioner Fish voted to send it to the voters, we had a long discussion about what kinds of new things this money could fund to increase safety and to provide opportunities for small businesses and individuals impacted by cannabis prohibition.
 So I was very disturbed and there was going to be a council vote, which is one of the reasons I'm putting this one on the table, because we do need to vote on the allocation of that $3 million of ongoing money from the marijuana tax. The proposed budget, or what's on the table, would allocate $2,300,000 plus funds to fund existing programs within the police bureau.
 leaving only $500,000 to be used for that other critical small business support and expungement of records, and only $125,000 to go to Vision Zero to reduce traffic fatalities.
 allocation in the proposed budget is $1.8 million for the service coordination team in the police bureau and $500,000 for the traffic division. But it doesn't increase any services. It merely uses marijuana money to pay for these services. And so my request is thinking back to those three points.
 purposes that we put in both in the ballot measure and in the city code, which is largely public safety, traffic safety and support for small businesses, I would like to make it a little bit more fair than allocating 2.3 million to the police.
 500,000, sorry, 625 to Vision Zero and only 500,000 to the third category. So here is my amendment. And what I'm suggesting is that since Vision Zero is very dear to three of us, with Commissioner Fish, his mother, Commissioner Udaly's father, and my husband having died in traffic crashes, that the urgency of Vision Zero is now and will...
 Every day it seems we hear about more fatalities on the streets of Portland, which could be prevented with better education, better traffic
 and better education to people about what they can do to be safe. And so the amendment says, reduce the current ongoing recreational marijuana tax fund allocation for the service coordination team by $1,464,858 and reallocate that to fund Vision Zero safety traffic work on an ongoing basis.
 reduce the one-time money in general fund support for Vision Zero by that same amount, and reallocate that to the Portland Police Bureau to backfill the reduction in funding the service coordination team on a one-time basis so that we can re-evaluate it next year.
 Do you have a motion? No, second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Saltzman. So a discussion, Mayor? Yes, and I wanted to ask a question to my colleagues. It's my understanding from what we heard from Director Scott and legal counsel that we can change these things. The reason I'm asking is there are some representatives of the police bureau representing the service coordination team who asked if they could testify on behalf of the police.
 of that program, we could either do it now or we could hold off and wait until all the amendments are on the table? I think it would be a – It's both regular order, ma'am. Very good. Commissioner Fish, did you have another comment? So here's my question. I just – I want to make sure I understand all the moving pieces. So under this amendment, the ongoing money that is currently proposed to go to service coordination team would go to Vision Zero –
 And what resources would be used to backfill service coordination team for the next fiscal year? The one-time money, which is currently allocated to Vision Zero. So all that I'm proposing is just to switch it. And so under this amendment, we would have in the next fiscal year a discussion about whether to fund service coordination team with one-time money or to find ongoing money to make it sustainable. Correct. Okay.
 Thank you. And I'll just remind the council, I've been one of the council's most solid supporters of the service coordination team. It just seems to me that at this time, Vision Zero is the more urgent. Can I ask the sponsor one other question? And I appreciate what you said earlier about
 your intent when you went to the voters and the marijuana tax. We could have a longer discussion about who said what at council, and I think there was probably a number of themes that were expressed. But does this amendment, for purposes of this budget, satisfy your concerns about how the marijuana money is distributed for purposes of this budget? Yes. Thank you.
 Mayor, just to clarify, since you are sitting as the Budget Committee, any member of the Budget Committee can ask city staff to come up and speak to a particular issue. And they will have that opportunity. I just wanted to know from my colleagues whether they wanted to do it now or wait until afterwards. I would say that we would bring them up first when we go to testimony since they are on duty. Very good. And I will just note that I was not aware of this at the time, but I am now made aware –
 that the service coordination team was actually one of the parts of the agreement that we agreed to with the Department of Justice under the reforms of the police bureau. So the question of whether it will be funded long term is, I think, intimately linked to the question of...
 maintaining the integrity of the agreement between the city and the Department of Justice. And I want to be very clear and on the record, regardless of what happens in Washington, D.C., we are going to continue to be supportive of those agreements. Mayor, can I just make one observation? Commissioner Fish, yes, please. We have in past years, sometimes because of budget shortfalls, we have been able to maintain the integrity of the agreement.
 funded council priorities, long-term priorities with one-time money, with the understanding that when ongoing money was available, we'd make the conversion. My vote today in no way – I'm a huge supporter of SCT, whether it's in the Justice Department settlement or not. And I, Commissioner Fritz, and I and Commissioner Saltzman have been on this council long enough to remember when this actually was controversial.
 and it was criticized as an approach. It now has demonstrated its worthiness. In deciding the question about whether we use one-time or ongoing money, in no way in my vote will that be a reflection on whether I want to see this as a long-term commitment of the council. Very good.
 Any further comment? Commissioner Udaly? I'd just like to add that I hope in future years we can have a more in-depth conversation about how the merit-want attacks will be utilized, and I will have some questions about SCT when those representatives come up. I'm certainly an enthusiastic supporter of diversion. I just...
 I appreciate the intent of this amendment. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you, colleagues. Aye. Wheeler. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for going around and around on this with me and coming up with what I think is a very good pragmatic solution with the caveat I mentioned earlier. So I want to thank you in particular for your hard work on this amendment. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Thank you.
 Next item. Thank you, colleagues. This is a related one, which involves myself and Commissioner Udaly partnering to discuss that remaining $500,000 of ongoing money. And this is a motion to Add to Attachment D to add the following budget note. The financial year 2017-18 budget includes $500,000 in recreational marijuana tax revenue to be allocated via a participatory budgeting process to
 to be managed by the City Budget Office with guidance from Commissioners Eudaly and Fritz. The project managers will implement the process using the participatory budget project's guidelines and shall report to Council by November 30th of 2017 on their progress.
 Funding allocated through this process will go towards the following, which is the third purpose that I mentioned in my last discussion. Support for neighborhood small businesses, especially women-owned and minority-owned businesses, including but not limited to business incubator programs, management training, and job training opportunities, and providing economic opportunity and education to communities disproportionately impacted by cannabis prohibition.
 I'll second this. I have a question of the sponsor. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Fish seconds. Commissioner Fish. So the way I read this is we're carving out the half million dollars for the next budget year. There will be a participatory budgeting process, something that I know both the mayor and Commissioner Fritz have wanted to pursue and fine-tune.
 The Budget Office will manage it, which means that all members of the council can kibitz, but it will receive guidance from two commissioners who will be guiding the process. And then at such time as there are recommendations, they will come back to the council for a vote. Is that correct? Correct. And...
 Just speaking for myself, I would hope that when you come back to the council, there's a menu of options that can be reviewed and not just an option, but that's for your consideration since you are guiding the process.
 Commissioner, I would expect it to be rather like the special appropriations process that we've had before, only using community members as well as city council staff members. So, for example, for those who haven't gone through that process, sometimes we have more asks than dollars and we have to weigh tough choices. But I would welcome having more asks than are available dollars so the council can deliberate.
 That's a good point. The other thing I'll note is that this is ongoing money. And one of the things I'd like to see is some things need funding sooner rather than later. Some things may be needed more later so that we would, as Commissioner Eudalia asked, have a discussion about the marijuana tax each budget cycle because we are bound by the tax measure language to have a specific vote on the uses of that tax. Thank you.
 Very good. Any further questions or discussion? Please call the roll, Carla. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. I'm really excited about this participatory budget process. I think it hopefully will be the first of many. Aye. Fritz. Well, thanks to Teresa Marchetti and her team in the Cannabis Program Management in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement who have been amazing setting this up. Thank you to the...
 cannabis policy oversight team, who will doubtless be engaged in this process. And thank you in particular to State Senator Lou Frederick and Jesse Horton, the president of the Minority Cannabis Business Association, who put in arguments in favor into our ballot measure, specifically calling out these necessary purposes. Thank you.
 Wheeler. I love this amendment, and in particular, I've been looking for a good opportunity for us to engage in participatory budgeting. And I think with Commissioner Fritz and you daily at the helm of this process, it will be just what Commissioner you daily hinted at, the first of many opportunities to go directly to the public and hear from communities that are directly impacted by budgetary and policy decisions we make. And.
 and having them not only sitting at the table, but actually making the decisions on how resources are allocated. I vote aye. The amendment's adopted. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, ploughing on, the next motion is to add a budget note which will say, Council directs the City Budget Office to evaluate funding levels for the Commissioner's Office's budget relative to the Mayor's Office and make recommendations to adjust funding levels as appropriate. This may include, but is not limited to, establishing the appropriate ratio of Commissioner's Office budgets to the Mayor's Office budget.
 This evaluation should be complete and submitted to Council for consideration by November 30, 2017, in preparation for the financial year 2018-19 budget.
 Second. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Fish seconds. Questions or comments? Commissioner Saltzman? What is the intent behind this or the rationale behind it? Well, I think the size of the mayor's office in particular has been something that has gone up and down in the three mayors that I've served under. Mayor Hales had half as many staff as Mayor Adams and I think found that very difficult to manage. So Mayor Wheeler is...
 in my opinion rightly, adding three commissioners' assistant positions in his office. And there was some suggestion, well, some of us are really working and scrambling very hard to do all the work that we're assigned, and perhaps there should be ratios to trigger that, both as a way to make future mayors who set the proposed budget think about how much staff they actually need in relation to the commissioners' offices and to...
 But each one of us, as an independently elected official, has the right to submit a budget
 that we believe we can defend? Well, under Mayor Hales, as you remember, all of the commissioners' offices funding was set similarly. And we went away from the practice of previous administrations of allowing commissioners' offices to pull funding for staff members in their office from their bureaus, which really amplified the difference between having big bureaus assigned or small bureaus assigned because commissioners in charge of big bureaus could have their staff people...
 amplified by the big bureaus where the small bureau directors could not. May I offer a comment? Thank you. Commissioner Fish. The reason I'm going to support this amendment is it does not compel us to make any changes in our budget or in how we allocate resources. It simply asks for an assessment and some recommendations. And in conversations I've had with the Budget Office,
 I'm persuaded that we ought to at least have this conversation about whether there is a ratio between what the Mayor's Office has in terms of budget and Commissioner's Offices. I will be free to reject whatever recommendations come out of that process, but I actually think that is an appropriate inquiry, and I look forward to a conversation, and we may decide to take no further action. I see no harm in having that assessment. Thank you.
 I'll throw my comments into the pile as well. This is an evaluation, and I never think that an evaluation is a harmful thing. So I support the amendment as drafted. I will say that different mayors have had different managerial styles and have chosen, as Commissioner Fritz said, to staff at different levels. Mayor? Mayor?
 Adams had, I believe, over 20 people actually working in his office. Mayor Hales made a commitment to significantly reduce that, which he did. And it was my observation and the observation of many that, particularly since he took the bureaus back at the front, he was way behind the ball and his administration was overwhelmed with the number of issues that they had to deal with.
 We have more on staff now, but we have a huge amount of work that we need to get done, and it's my observation that as the presiding officer, if we get backlogged, that actually slows down the commissioner's offices as well in terms of important policy implementation. So I certainly welcome the evaluation. I think it's a good idea. Mayor, one other comment if I could? Yeah, please. During my tenure on this board, I've—
 when we were in the teeth of a recession, this council, for example, opted not to take a COLA.
 From time to time, members of this council have underspent and returned savings to the treasury. So again, I'm not, my support of this does not in any way indicate that I think we should limit the right of each council office to make its own decisions about how much it spends on what, whether to return money, whether to accept a COLA. That is in the discretion of each office.
 This is an evaluation, though, as to whether there should be some connection between the level of staffing and funding at the mayor's office and commissioner's offices. I actually think that's a long overdue discussion. Very good. Any further comments or conversation? Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Well, I think each commissioner and the mayor are free to design their own budget, and if they can defend it with their colleagues and the voters and the public, then more power to them. But I think this is really the first step.
 in sort of an automatic process where commissioners' budgets and mayors' budgets are going to grow staff without any other reason, then the ratio looks good or the ratio looks fine. I think these decisions should be made by the council as a budget body, should scrutinize our office budgets as should the budget office, as should the public, and we should be free to staff according to what we think really meets the needs of our offices. I really think this is trying to set up an automatic formula that's just going to escalate
 Our offices, and I don't think it's necessary. No. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? I want to throw my caution here as well. First of all, I support the amendment and I support the evaluation. But Commissioner Saltzman just hinted at a potential problem, which is what happens if you have a mayor...
 who really doesn't know how to manage an operation and, in fact, eviscerates their budget to the point where they don't have the ability to manage effectively. That slows them down, it slows you down, it slows the whole city. So I would actually put on the record, now, I oppose any hard and fast formulaic approach to budgeting. That is always a bad idea, in my opinion. But I like the idea of the evaluation. I think we should have it. It should be an open and transparent conversation.
 if for no other reason than that I received many questions from many different quarters about our budget vis-à-vis the Commissioner's Office budgets. And so I think these are legitimate questions to evaluate. I vote aye. The amendment's adopted. Thank you. Moving on. I've just got a few left. This next amendment, number five, is to amend Detachment D, specifically the budget note on funding youth bus pass. And I know we have people who are going to want to testify on this.
 So the budget note would now say the city is providing $967,000 for the youth bus pass.
 again in financial year 2017-18, even though providing transportation to high school students is not a core city function. Council declares its belief that the program should only be available to high school students who qualify for free or reduced price lunch within the City of Portland, including those who attend Park Rose and David Douglas high schools.
 Council directs that the $967,000 be allocated to the three districts based on the number of students qualifying for free or reduced-price lunch, and the City asks the school boards of each district to utilise the funds in a manner that provides transit access to vulnerable students.
 Furthermore, Council directs the Portland Bureau of Transportation to complete an independent, objective analysis of TriMet's actual costs associated with the program, either through increased expenses or foregone revenue.
 Is there a second? I'll second for the purpose of discussion. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Udaly seconds for the purpose of discussion. Any further questions or conversation, Commissioner Udaly? Yes. Then Commissioner Fish. I think this is going to be the one item that we're not in total agreement on. I want to acknowledge the hard work that OPAL's youth advocates put into this effort, Youth Environmental Justice Alliance.
 and the Multnomah Youth Commission.
 They really brought their A-game to our community budget sessions. And I would ask that instead of allocating the money as described, holding it and holding a work session that includes those voices. Because I strongly feel that the youth should have a voice in this. That they may have some important input that we haven't considered. And my...
 one of my concerns about this allocation is that I've heard that the smaller districts don't necessarily have matching funds to put into youth pass. Right now we do a third, right? With the school district, the city and try Matt, um, giving a discount. And so they may not be able to leverage those dollars the same way as PPS can. And, um,
 we just might be able to come up with a better solution. I would actually suggest take that as a friendly amendment. If the amount is the same, $967,000, and there'd be a work session with the school boards and the youth to decide how to divide that up,
 That's a different conversation than we've been asked, which is pay for it in Portland public schools as well as in David Douglas and Park Rose. Can I ask a question? Because that would be my inclination as well here. But, Andrew, historically when we've budgeted for this, when did the school district start to draw down the money in the fiscal year? Sure.
 I don't know the exact answer in terms of when they get the funding. I believe the bus passes are available starting in September. So they're not used for any summer-related academic programs? I don't believe so. But to be clear, sign-ups, I believe, start July 1st. That may be. So conceivably, we could...
 agree to set the money aside and try to have a more robust policy discussion before we allocate it and still meet the September deadline? I think so. We would need to check with the districts. There certainly is a time constraint there in terms of moving quickly. Whether there's time to do so, you know, sooner rather than later, that may be available. Well, with the caveat that we may not be able to have the process we want given the timing –
 The friendly amendment or the amendment to the amendment has my support because I think there are a lot of – I think the devil's in the details, and I have some real questions about how this would actually work. I also have a question about whether we're being too restrictive in saying free or reduced price lunch. There are working class kids whose parents fall just over that boundary who I think may –
 I think that is a conversation we ought to have outside of the budget process. So I would urge us, Mayor, to accept the amendment to the amendment, segregate the money, set the money aside, and then figure out what our timeline is for a policy discussion. So may I just try again with an amended amendment? Yeah, please. So the city is funding providing $967,000 for the youth bus pass, again, in financial year 17-18, even though providing transportation to high school students is not a cause of defunction. Can I ask you to elaborate on that?
 Council declares its belief that the program should only be available to high school students who qualify for free or reduced lunch within the City of Portland. Actually, we could delete that as well. Council allocates it to districts within the City of Portland, including those attending Park Rose and David Douglas. Council directs that the $967,000 be allocated to the three districts in a manner that provides transit access to vulnerable students. And then finishing off with the PBOT analysis. Okay.
 Does that meet your intent or do I have to put in something about a work session or something? Well, I'd like a work session. Let me just see if I can make it even simpler. Yes. I think for purposes of today, all we have to do is say –
 that we're going to spend $967,000 on youth bus pass, but also say that we will determine how that money is allocated based on a work session and further council action. I'm not comfortable putting any sideboards on this because I want to have that conversation first. That's fine. Yeah. Thank you.
 Sounds good. Andrew, how would you say that in budget ease? Yeah, well, if we start with the first sentence again, so the city is providing $967,000 for the youth bus pass, again in fiscal year 2017-18, even though providing transportation to high school students is not a core city function. Council expresses its intent to hold a work session to discuss the allocation of this funding. And to be followed by some council action which appropriates the money.
 So the work session would be for the purpose of reviewing our options, but then we would have to affirmatively come forward with the policy guidance to how the money is spent. Is that right? Yes, there would need to be a further action. Yeah. Commissioner Fritz, is that satisfactory? Yes, I do want to include specifically saying Portland Public Schools 1J, Park Rose, and David Douglas High Schools.
 Because I can no longer vote for the entire amount of money to go to just Portland Public Schools. So we're setting aside $967,000 to fund transportation services to high school students in those three school districts. That's good. And we're expressing, but the allocation will be subject to a work session and further council action. All right. Does that state your amendment, colleague? Yes. So...
 if you're ready to read back the language or we can move on to the next amendment and come back. Yeah.
 Can we do that? Just put this on hold for a moment. Let's make it as simple as possible. Okay, Commissioner Fritz. Setting money aside and then making the policy choices later. And for anybody who thinks that things are already cooked up before we get out here in public, I think you've just seen that that is not the case. And thank you, Commissioner O'Day. That's a good strengthening of the program. Motion six is to amend attachment D to add the following budget note on open and accountable elections program. The city's public matching...
 campaign finance program is to be implemented in time for the 2020 election. Council directs the City Budget Office to conduct an analysis of the staffing and operational needs of the program and report back to Council with recommended funding levels for financial year 17-18 and beyond.
 The City Budget Office is also directed to make a recommendation as to the appropriate location of this function, in other words, of the program. I'll second that. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further comments? Just to be clear, in the amended that's on the table, there is $250,000 to get this program started. Correct. Thank you for that clarification. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment's adopted. Thank you.
 Are you ready? Should we go on to the – why are we going to seven? Let's keep it going. Okay, my last one. Thank you for your patience, everybody. Motion to amend Attachment D to add the following budget note. The Office for Community Technology, OCT, is currently a division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. Council directs the City Budget Office to engage an external –
 that will evaluate options and make recommendations to council on the optimal location and structure for the Office for Community Technology within the city's organizational framework. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion on this item? Well, for the two of you who weren't here last term, this was something that moved because of the budget changes.
 when the former director of the Office for Community Technology retired, partly for savings, this program was put into the Revenue Office, but there was never an external objective evaluation of what's the best location and structure for it.
 Okay. Very good. Is there a cost component to this that has to be accounted for? Yes. To the extent we move forward with an external consultant, I think there would be a cost. One of the things we would need to work through that and hopefully we'll be able to do that before the adopted budget in three weeks. You'll come back to us with recommendations. I'm perfectly comfortable with your office absorbing this cost. Thank you for your generosity, Commissioner Fish. I appreciate that. Did you say you're going to come back and
 In three weeks with this evaluation? No, in three weeks with the cost estimate. Oh, for all funding. Yeah, for all the amendments have to have an identified source of funding, and I didn't see it. Well, yeah, currently it does not have a source of funding. That would be one of my concerns. Very good. Any further conversations or discussion around this item? Very good. Please call the roll. Carla? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Aye.
 The amendment is adopted. And how are you guys doing on your drafting on the fly? I think we're good. Got a proposal? Maybe we should do you daily and then come back at the end. Yeah, why don't we do that? We'll go ahead and finish. And then Commissioner Saltzman, you also have a couple of amendments. Commissioner, you daily? So I'm making a motion to increase or restore the funding for Prosper Portland's Small Business Growth Program.
 which reads as, Prosper Portland, allocate $87,500 of one-time general fund resources to Prosper Portland to fund a second cohort of small business owners in Prosper Portland's increase project. The funding source for this ad will be an $87,500 one-time reduction to general fund contingency. Amend attachments B, C, and E as necessary. Second.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Daly, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further conversation? I'd just like to add that...
 I heard from a number of constituents, including Business for a Better Portland, which is a new small business advocacy group in the city, and coalitions for community of color, who both expressed their desire to see this funding restored. There's small grants for, I believe, women and minority business owners.
 and they can really make a significant difference in a fledgling business. Very good, and I would just add to the commentary, this is actually a very good program, and it was offered up by the PDC as part of its 5% reduction package.
 Any further comments or questions, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I would like to offer an amendment to restore the summer...
 Parks program in Brooklyn Park. I think we heard a lot of testimony at our budget hearings about the impact of this program. Brooklyn is a unique neighborhood where its park really is kind of the center of the neighborhood, and I'd like to see us for $10,000 maintain the staffing for a summer program there. How much? $10,000. I'll second that. I have no idea.
 This has not been raised with me, or has it been raised with you, Matt Wheeler? I know what the program is because I had to go through the budget line item by line item. But why don't you explain what it is? Oh, it's to provide staff to have a summer in the parks program in the Brooklyn Park.
 Summer free-for-all, I think, is what it's formerly called by the Parks Bureau. It's still summer free-for-all in the areas that have a significant number of children getting free school lunches from the school districts. When
 When Commissioner Fish started this program, or at least greatly enhanced it during the recession, he did a lot of fundraising every year to add, I think it was $150,000 overall, to have the programs in most parks in the city. Every year we've fallen short of being able to do that amount of fundraising, and so this was a right-sizing of the summer free-for-all program. And I don't know what the cost of doing it is or what the logistics of doing it would be.
 Well, the figures we got from the Parks Bureau, $10,000 is roughly the staff cost for the summer program. And as I said, we did hear a lot of public testimony in support of this program. I think the park in Brooklyn neighborhood is the center of the neighborhood. And I think for $10,000, it's a good investment. Dan, can I ask you something? Could you give us a preview of your second amendment? No, that is – I don't have a second amendment. So that's your only request? Yeah, that is the amendment, yes. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz, assuming that you continue as Parks Commissioner, does this alter in any way your planning over the next year in terms of services at Brooklyn? I can't answer that, Commissioner, although Mike Abate can testify to it if the Council agrees to put this on the table. The challenge is that...
 Brooklyn is a relatively affluent neighborhood these days. That's why it's no longer getting the free program, because it's become more affluent. So I'm troubled by the concept of because when a lot of neighbors came in and asked for it back, will that continue until we're back up to it being whoever has enough time to go to meetings to get a program in their park? Andrew, can I ask you a question? Because I'm thinking of something you said earlier.
 during our budget process, I just want to be clear about. And that was notwithstanding whatever earmark we make on funds, I think you reminded us that the commissioner in charge has broad discretion as to how to spend the funds. Is that correct? Generally speaking, that's true, yes. So Commissioner Salzman is proposing, in effect, to add $10,000 to the Parks Bureau budget with an advisory recommendation about how the money would be spent, but the commissioner in charge makes that decision. Well, I think...
 Council intent matters too. Yeah, I think council intent has some bearing on this. And, you know, we've heard lots of people come to budget hearings to testify for their issue, and they get funded. I mean, OpenSignal is probably the best example. We just funded OpenSignal because they turned down and forced at our budget hearing.
 I think we should give the same respect to a neighborhood and its young people who organize on behalf of their summer program in the park in what I think is a very important neighborhood in the city. So I think the same rationale applies that council can provide some intent as to how a bureau spends a certain amount of funds, especially if we're providing the funds through a contingency tab.
 Would these funds come from the contingency? That was actually going to be my clarifying question, yes. And Commissioner, was that one-time or ongoing funding? One-time. And Commissioner Fritz, are there other neighborhoods that don't have these programs? Yes, and indeed some that don't have it because of the right sizing of the program. Mike Cabate can talk to this if Council wants to put it on the table. Okay. Okay.
 Any further questions or discussion? Please call the roll.
 Dan, I appreciate you bringing this forward, but after listening to the conversation, I do have a concern about funding this without a context. And this program has been scaled back over time because of resources, and so we're doing a little bit of triage. And I would entertain a subsequent request for one-time funding if there was a basis. I don't know enough, really, to support this. I appreciate you bringing it forward. No.
 Seltzman. Aye. Udaly. Well, it's hard to vote against funding a summer program, but I'm kind of in the same position to Commissioner Fish. If there is extra money to be had, I'd want to first look at which neighborhoods were most in need, and it doesn't sound like Brooklyn would make that cut necessarily. No. Okay.
 So my wonderful staff are texting me rapidly on all forms. The other ones that are not continuing this year are Grant, Laurelhurst and Wallace. We have offered to work with the Brooklyn community to have them develop their own programme in Brooklyn and indeed I would be concerned about doing this one time now. Do they then start into the Buckman Pool conversation of having to come year after year after year to get one time funding?
 But another suggestion that my Chief of Staff has said is that perhaps we could bring it to the adopted budget after we've had time to talk about it, you and I, and the Parks staff. I'd be happy to do that moving forward, but no for right now.
 Wheeler. So the amendment has died, so I would appeal to Commissioner Saltzman to do what Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Fish has suggested, which is flesh the proposal out and then bring it back potentially for some of the innovation funds, or perhaps there's a way, given that it is a relatively small item and it is the only thing that you are asking for today, right?
 I'd like to see that work honoured in some way. So I would ask my colleagues to see if they cannot work that out. I will vote with the majority. I will vote no. But I'd like to see your work respected and honoured in this regard. So we'll continue to work with you on it. The amendment fails. I just want to make sure that Commissioner Saltzman's previous amendments on the Vision Zero funding, being able to go to that refugee training and immigrant training program, that's already in there? It's in the Mayor's file budget. Good. That's correct. Thank you.
 Thank you. So we have one more, and our incredible on-the-fly amendment drafters have been busy at work. What do you got for us? So council expresses its intent to fund $967,000 in transportation services to lower-income high school students who attend the Parkrose, David Douglas, and Portland public school districts. Council further expresses its intent to hold a work session to determine the appropriate allocation of these resources, followed by action to appropriate those funds. Second. Thank you.
 I just want to... Actually, is that your amendment? Well, could you read it again slowly, please? Sure. Council expresses its intent to fund $967,000 in transportation services to lower-income high school students who attend the Parkrose, David Douglas, and Portland Public School districts. Council further expresses its intent to hold a work session to determine the appropriate allocation of those resources, followed by action to appropriate those funds.
 So one of my concerns is what we are basing the needs assessment on, because I don't believe that free and reduced lunch is a reasonable cutoff, because you have to be extremely low income to qualify for those services. So I want to make sure that by saying low income, we're not restricting...
 ourselves to a specific criteria? So I think the term lower income is generic enough that during the work session, council would be able to define that term. That could be under 100% of MFI, for instance. I agree with my colleague's legislative intent on that. Andrew, the only other wordsmithing I want to just raise is it says we intend to fund. We are, in fact, funding.
 I mean, this is a one-time general fund. I think it should be stated that we are, in fact, funding one time the tune of $900,000-something, but we are going to determine how the money is allocated through a separate process. I would make that one tweet because we're not intending to fund it. We are funding it. Good. Council is funding it. Excuse me. So that was a motion.
 By Fritz, it was amended by Udaily. It was seconded by Fish, if I got that all correct. And did we say who's going to do that, or does anybody want to raise their hand to volunteer to do the organizing of it? I'll work with Udaily. Thank you. Because I want to also add in there, not in the motion, but just to declare my legislative intent, there are places in East Portland that really don't have very good tri-map regulations.
 service. So I would assume that the school boards would be thinking about what works in their district. Again, in addition to the lower income students that if you already live so far away from a transit line, that's not a pass. It's not going to help you very much. So it could be that they're going to fund different things in transportation.
 So I'll put my comments on the table again. I will absolutely support this amendment as amended, and I want to appreciate the work my colleagues have put into it.
 to find the right solution. But I also want to be the budget wet blanket and say as good as this program is and as popular as this program is and as needed as this program is, I continue to wonder why the city of Portland is funding it at all.
 It is not a core service. And the conversations we're having here are conversations that school boards should be having, or perhaps the state which created the yellow bus law with the school boards. Maybe they should be having this conversation, or maybe they should be supporting us in our efforts to fund this important service in the community. And there's no end to really important, valued conversations.
 services in the community, but this one really is the round peg in the square hole as far as I'm concerned. I appreciate the work that Commissioner Fritz did trying to address the second glaring problem with this program, which is that it is wholly inequitable for us to be funding Portland public school students and acting as though the other two districts, Park Rose and David Douglas, aren't involved.
 Portland students, they are. But it's further complicated by the fact that they have not declined their resources from the state around yellow bus services. So part of your work session is going to have to be digging deep and understanding the implications of us trying to fund something where there's already a conflicting state law that's in place and that the legislature has adopted.
 put into place. And then there's the third part that I'm really interested in, which is what is the real cost of this program? What is the true incremental cost of adding students onto already existing Trimet bus routes?
 Are they crowding out other customers? Are they adding additional buses? Are there busloads of people waiting to pay who are passed up because the buses are so full of students? I would like to know how is our money actually being used in the context of this program? Is the real additional marginal cost of this program really the $3 million that is –
 stated as the true cost of this program. I think we have a right to know that if we're funding this. But I really want to be very clear as I support this today that as important as this program is, and we heard from the youth commissioners loudly and clearly during our budget forums, this is ask number one.
 It's really important to them, and I get it, and we're going to fund it this year. We're not going to leave people wondering what's going on come July 1, but I want to have some very serious conversations about this program and its continuation as a city service before we fund it again.
 Thank you. That reminds me, let's make sure we have the last sentence in the motion, that furthermore, Council directs PBOT to complete an independent objective analysis of TriMet's actual costs associated with the program, either through increased expenses or foregone revenues. Thank you.
 Should I read the whole thing again, and if somebody wants to introduce it as one motion, just to make sure that we've got everything. Okay. So council is funding $967,000 in transportation services to lower-income high school students who attend the Parkrose, David Douglas, and Portland Public School districts. Council expresses its intent to hold a work session to determine the appropriate allocation of those resources, followed by an action to appropriate those funds.
 Furthermore, Council directs PBOT to complete an independent objective analysis of TriMet's actual costs associated with the program, either through increased expenses or foregone revenues. All right. Thank you. Well done. Nice. Good job. Any further comments or conversation to be had, please call the roll. Fish? I thank all my colleagues for, I think, a very productive conversation. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Thank you for making it better. Hi. Wheeler. Hi. Great work. The amendments adopted. Great drafting. So does that conclude the amendments? So we have some professional staff. So actually at this stage, Mayor, I just want to make sure we don't miss step seven of the script. So with those amendments that the Budget Committee has put on the table, and all of them have been approved with the exception of the Saltzman Amendment around Brooklyn Park,
 We now need a... But before we go to B, C, and D, we have a whole group of on-duty officers who've been waiting. Can they testify now and be dismissed before we go through and approve the exhibits? Is it necessary for us to approve the exhibits right now? Yeah. As Budget Committee, you can call folks up at any time. I'd like to call those folks up. We need to do this step before we move to public testimony. Mayor, can I just make an observation? And I...
 I take a back seat to no one on this council in support of SCT. I just want to be very clear. The issue, the amendment that we've adopted today for consideration has to do with the color of money. It has to do whether one-time or ongoing money. It in no way, in my view, is a comment by the council on the merits of the program, which we're free to revisit any time. And...
 On some level, sort of weighing the lives saved through Vision Zero versus the lives saved through SCT, I think that's for higher authority to make that call. So I hope that no one from the Police Bureau believes they have to come to this budget forum and defend the program because it would be my intent to continue to fund them as one commissioner with one-time or ongoing money as long as they're getting the outcomes that they're getting. So it's not, for me, a referendum on their outcomes. Thank you.
 Great. And I think it's important to make that clarification that we are, in fact, funding the program in the budget as proposed and through the amendments that have just been put on the table. So with that, if you'd like to come up and say a few words, we'd be delighted to have you. And thank you for your patience. Good afternoon. And if you could just state your name for the record. I'm Chris Davis, Assistant Chief with the Portland Police Bureau. I'm Emily Rochon, Service Coordination Team Program Manager with the Police Bureau.
 So, Mayor and Commissioners, we've already been over a lot of the benefits of the service coordination team, and so I'll keep this fairly quick. Thank you. Our only questions about this amendment are that our concern is that our current contract with Central City Concern runs through June 30th of 2019 for just south of $4.6 million. Okay.
 As noted earlier, this program is required or some successor is required in the DOJ settlement agreement. And so our concern really at this point is about funding this program after July of 2018.
 The increase in staffing relative to vacancies within the police bureau, particularly by the end of fiscal 17-18, is going to put pressure on our ability to use salary savings for one-time expenses. And so that's going to put additional pressure on our budget that is less likely to be available for programs like this. We also have a problem.
 would advocate for the use of some of this marijuana money for traffic enforcement. You know, the city's statistics are that from 2004 to 2013, 91% of fatalities involved some form of impairment on the part of the operator. Chief, I'm sorry to interrupt, but we've left $500,000 of the marijuana tax money in the traffic division. So that's not taken away. Right. Thank you.
 So that's really it. I have Emily here if you're interested in any specific information about the program or outcomes or anything. Great.
 The results have been very good. As Commissioner Fish said at the beginning of the discussion, there were a lot of questions about whether this would be a successful partnership, and the data I've received suggests it's very successful, that it works with some of the most chronically homeless people, connecting them with important services that they need. It connects people with potential behavioral health issues with service providers that
 rather than sending them to jail. And it gives people sustained long-term support. So I just want to underscore what you heard up there. We do get it, and it is a highly valued program, and you've done a great job.
 I want certain people to hear me say this. You have done a great job in the police bureau running this program, and your partnership with Central City has been an exemplary one. So thank you. I'll go one step further. They didn't play this card, but I'll play it for them. We understand also that if this program were to discontinue, it will end up costing our community more money.
 Because we'll go back to the old and not very creative solution about locking up people who have drug addictions and then releasing them after they've done their time no better off versus actually addressing their addiction and helping them transition to becoming productive members of society. And if anyone doubts the success of this program, I would invite them to come to the graduation ceremonies.
 with SCT folks who have turned their lives around and have begun new lives because of the counseling and the services they've received. So we thank you for your work. Thank you, and thanks for your patience. Any further questions? Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right, so to the exhibits.
 So I'll call for a motion to approve the budget adjustments and attachments B, C, and D of the memo as amended. Yeah, and let me be really clear. This is not a vote to approve the budget. No. This is simply council as the budget committee. All of the amendments you've just discussed that there is support for, as well as the changes to the proposed budget that you filed last week, this puts them all officially on the table for public conversation. Correct. Testimony.
 So moved. So I'm not making, you are making the motion, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz. Second. So now we're ready for public testimony. Now we need a vote now. Please call the roll. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 So the budget adjustments and attachments B, C, and D of the memo is amended, is approved. Including all the amendments we just talked about. Including all the amendments we just talked about. Public testimony. Very good. Thank you. Now we go to public testimony. How many people are interested in public testimony? One, two, three, four, five. We need three minutes. I show nine people signed up. How many? Nine. Okay. Yeah. Three minutes is good. First three, please, coming up are Mary Seip.
 Emma Calloway and Mark Goldberg. Mary, you get your full three minutes this afternoon. I'm glad. I'll take a deep breath here. Hello again. My name is Mary Seip. First thing I want to say is thank you. I was ill the last couple of weeks, and so I've been watching a lot of the budget conversations on my TV. And I just want to say that I feel heard.
 Um, when I see the things that are in the budget, um, there are a number of things that I've given public testimony on that have been put in the budget. Um, and, uh, I'll just name a couple of them. I've given testimony about the graffiti, uh, abatement, uh, funding and the issues around that. Um, and, uh, some issues around, uh, the additional park rangers, uh, issues that we've had with, uh, crime and safety issues in our neighborhood. Um...
 I've given testimony about affordable housing, and there's definitely things there for that.
 I do want to say that I support the funding that you've suggested with the state revenue sharing for the Police Bureau. I think any funding that we can allocate to our understaffed Police Bureau that will help with added training on dealing with mental health crisis and things of that nature is really needed. And I totally support anything of that nature.
 I also want to thank you for declaring this Older Americans Month. I'm one of those older Americans, and I was thinking while I was sitting here this morning watching a number of young people participating in city government how important.
 I didn't start participating in city government until I became a senior citizen, and it made me wonder what kind of impact might I have had at this stage in my life if I had started out as a teenager in high school. I also want to thank you for the funding for the
 I can't remember what you're calling it, age-friendly city or whatever, you'll recall that a couple of weeks ago I gave some very emotional testimony about the plight of...
 elderly people over 65 living on Social Security and struggling to survive in our community with increasing rents. And I just want to say I really support what you're doing. I'm incredibly appreciative of the process and the opportunity that you've given to citizens like myself to give input. And, again, I feel heard, and thank you. Thank you, Mary. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the commission. My name is Emma Calloway. I'm the government relations director for Portland Community College, and you asked if there are any registered lobbyists. I'm a registered lobbyist in the state of Oregon. Thank you. Appreciate that information. Absolutely. Today I'm here because in your budget you have a $400,000 request to the state for a
 additional workforce dollars and we're here to testify on meeting that need that you've requested for partners that you haven't worked with before but may be able to meet some of those workforce needs that you're trying to address and also help to fill the skills gap. We hear all the time from employers through Portland Community College for
 additional workforce training that would help to kind of fill this advanced manufacturing skills gap or a number of other issues. And Portland Community College and Mount Hood Community College that we're here to represent today have kind of put together an idea about how to think more creatively and support that we would definitely need from the city to continue to expand the workforce work that we do for the city. I will highlight that there was a Georgetown University study recently that came out that said
 illustrated over 11 million jobs across the country, that 11.5 million of those 11.6 million jobs really do need some sort of education past high school. And we think that there's a real opportunity to expand Portland Community College's role in not necessarily a two-year, not always a four-year degree, but what other career pathway programs can we help create that get folks moving into the workforce.
 So in other words, 99% of job growth we know will go to folks who need some sort of additional training, and we'd like to continue to provide that. We provide that now, and we'd like to grow that program. So I'll turn it over, but the last thing I just wanted to say is that between Mount Hood Community College and Portland Community College, we want to continue to provide innovative, strategic ways to –
 address the skills gap and to provide creative education that get folks back into the workforce as quickly as possible. And this approach of connecting high quality training, college certificates, industry recognized credentials, in addition to student supported services, kind of help people get through to their path and help people graduate from Portland Community College with a real career path opportunity.
 So at this point, I'll turn it over to Mark Goldberg, the Associate VP at Portland Community College for Workforce Development, to kind of talk about our suggestion. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler and members of the commission, for the record, my name is Mark Goldberg. I'm the Associate VP for Workforce Development and Continuing Ed at Portland Community College. What I wanted to do is talk a little bit about the proven results of our Career Pathways programs as they align with student success, workforce development, equity and inclusion, and also really align with regional workforce sector strategies.
 So Mount Hood Community College and PCC's high quality career pathways programs that integrate career coaching and wrap around support have had an 89 to 94% college credential completion rate, and that's a range because we've got two colleges there. 75 to 85% employment rate and 72% persistence in college after getting their first credential from our students.
 Career Pathways programs really do reach underserved populations and close the achievement gap through strategic outreach, community partnership with our workforce board, with WorkSource Oregon and community-based organizations, and with recruitment. And so far, our results over the last few years in Career Pathways, we've been able to serve over 50% students of color, 50% low-income students, and 40% students who are either starting in GED prep.
 who are either non-native English speakers and or generally under-skilled adults. Our Career Pathways Initiative with PCC and Mount Hood and really the state of Oregon's Community College Pathways Program has been recognized nationally
 We've been recognized through the White House Ready to Work Initiative under the Obama administration, Center for Law and Social Policy, National Skills Coalition, Workforce Strategy Center, Community College Research Center, League for Innovation, and the Community College Consortium for Immigrant Education. And so I think the best way also of telling the story is to hear a student success story. And our students weren't able, our graduates weren't able to join, but I have a quick one.
 LaShawn was laid off from his CNC laser position and needed to retrain. He heard about PCC's career pathways in the HVAC program at Swan Island, which I know Mayor Wheeler, you toured last year.
 He registered and completed the six months of training. Career Pathways arranged several job shadows for him with various employers. LaShawn continued his education toward his associates in facilities maintenance while increasing his professional network. He's about to start an internship with a leading HVAC company with a potential hire at the end. LaShawn said he really valued the classes and the support course offered by PCC. He also values the support of Career Pathways team and the job shadow and business connections he's been able to make because of the team.
 Since LaShawn has two employers who are trying to competitively hire him, he will have employment by the end of the summer term 2017. He can expect an entry wage of $16 to $22 an hour and the potential to make around $75,000 a year. That's great. So that's one student. I have multiple success stories and also one with an employer, and we're going to leave you a letter from Vigor Industrial, which is a really important manufacturer in our region down in Swan Island. We're running out of time, but just wanted to –
 have a joint ask between Mount Hood and PCC of $200,000 of the $400,000 for workforce development to support career pathways programs. So that's your ask? That's the ask. $200,000 of the $400,000 to PCC Mount Hood. Together. And what's the relationship between Career Pathways and Future Connect? Future Connect.
 So there's some alignment with Career Pathways and Future Connect. Future Connect is really focused on students coming out of high school and transitioning to post-secondary. Career Pathways, we've done some work with youth and some really successful work in partnership with our workforce board. But Career Pathways is also designed for dislocated workers, lower-skilled adults, non-native English speakers, GED prep students.
 So it's a broader initiative that's really focused on career and technical education. So can I also just, since you're flagging for us an opportunity, let me just throw one back at you, which is since you mentioned vigor in particular, so we are leading an effort around Superfund, which is going to have a substantial jobs component locally. Okay.
 And as we figure out, you know, who the parties are at the table, work systems, state employment, EPA, and others, it sounds to me like we need to have you at the table to help us understand how to create opportunities for the students that you're educating. And there may be some funding opportunities through that process to support workforce training. So we'll reach out to you on that.
 Great, thank you Commissioner Fish. Just to address Commissioner Fritz's question, the services that we provide for Future Connect students versus Career Pathway students have very different set of counselors, different set of wraparound services. So in terms of the budget, they are two very separate programs. And to grow Career Pathways, that is the request we have before you today. And what's the $400,000 that you're referencing? $400,000.
 It's a very small budget note within your budget, as I understand it, that I read, that calls out nontraditional partners for workforce development programs. I'll get some more information from my budget stuff. Yes, I can help you find it. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Next three, please. Our Sarah Hobbs with Antigon Jarrett, and it'll be Carla Nutt. Yeah, I'll take it. Sarah, did you want to start? I want you to see this.
 I have support because I actually support what the pastor commented on at the beginning, and I will explain why.
 For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs. For the past 18 months, I've been partnering with the Behavioral Health Unit, predominantly their enhanced crisis intervention team. I fully support that the part of the recreational marijuana tax go to the BHU and what I believe is SCT program.
 But my biggest fear is that there not be a guarantee that the money cannot be diverted to other groups like rapid response.
 This past May 1st, trying to get out of downtown, I went where we were ordered to go. I was on a sidewalk. Five rapid response officers, a direct violation of the rule. They are not supposed to be on the sidewalk unless they are arresting the person they are pushing.
 pushed me down the sidewalk slowly because they were in a hurry to get to the other end of the sidewalk. The whole time I had my hands up like this going, I'm disabled, I'm going as fast as I can. They pushed me faster and I lost control of my bladder and ended up running my pants and they pushed me into a kettle.
 And then I had to walk eight blocks up, down, my back is bad, and my pants are so old to catch the streetcar to come home. I fully support that the recreational money go to the BHU SCT program. But what guarantees do I have that that money will not be diverted to other police agencies?
 As you can see, that is page four of the January BHG newsletter. That I am proud of. But I need to know that that money will not be diverted from the source that it's put into the budget. And what guarantees do we have of that? That's my question. Thank you, Sarah. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. All right. She's...
 Hi, my name is Antigonus Jarrett, and I am here to support Sarah Hobbs. I just want to clarify that our concerns are specifically the way that money is going to be used for behavioral health and whether or not it will be used specifically for behavioral health.
 Because many, many people self-medicate. It would make a lot of sense for behavioral health to come out of this budget. But it wouldn't make a lot of sense for the police budget to come out of this when we should be diverting those funds to help people.
 I very much agree with what Fish and Saltzman were saying earlier about how this behavioral health unit is basically preventative maintenance for the whole city, of making sure that people are healthy and happy. And I would like a good explanation of exactly what the money is going to be going to and exactly how those programs are going to be helping members of the community.
 And I would like it if those were made accessible easily on the council's website. So the good news is we've had extensive council hearings.
 over the years on SCT, and we have annual reports. So if you give us your contact information, we can get that to you. It is one of the most transparent programs we have, which is also why it's been one of the most controversial, because in the early days people had strong views on both sides. It's a fair question to ask. And just to be clear, Sarah, because you raised it,
 The amendment that we've voted on that's now before is to take a portion of the marijuana money and flip out some money so that the marijuana money, tax money, funds Vision Zero, which is programs to save people's lives. And one-time money backfills service coordination team, which is dedicated to that one use. And you're concerned about it leaking into something else. That can't happen without council approval.
 Okay. But thank you for raising it. That's the big concern in light of what happened to me on the 1st with those officers who said I heard were in very blatant disregard of an established rapid response officer policy about when they are and aren't supposed to be on sidewalks. They were not supposed to be on the sidewalk doing what they did. Thank you. So I also have one other concern.
 and that is I don't know exactly what the scope of this behavioral health unit is. I haven't done as much research as I would have preferred before I came here. But there was a young man who had mental illness who was shot recently while running away with a box cutter in a park. I have to wonder whether or not the mental health services that he needed would have been available to him.
 And I wonder if the behavioral health units are making sure that they are taking into account our most vulnerable. And I know that Amanda Fritz and Chloe Udaly and Ted Wheeler, I know that you all care about this greatly because of what I heard earlier. And I want to say thank you for that because that tells me that I know you're taking it seriously. However, I do not have confidence in the way that we do.
 that we deal with behavioral and mental health in this city, that it will necessarily save lives to divert more money, and I would be very happy in learning how it will help. However, I really, really have that reservation because I keep seeing more and more people die, like that young man who was shot just, I think, a week and a half ago. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for being here this morning as well as this afternoon. Christina Nieves in my office, who actually sits on the behavioral...
 Health Unit Advisory Committee. So if you want to, she may be available right now, but if not, I'm sure she'd be happy to make an appointment to talk to you and hear your concerns and explain some of the work of the Bureau. Thank you so much.
 situation she mentioned involved the transit police what would be great if we could get communication between the different divisions of the police bureau about what is available if different units outside of the behavioral health unit come across somebody in their division who's in a mental health crisis who could they call at the BHU the enhanced crisis intervention team
 because they are doing great work. Exactly. I just want to make sure that behavioral health unit is being used appropriately as opposed to other police officers responding. That is pretty much what I was trying to say. Thank you. All said, thank you. I'd like to turn it over to you. Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience. Sure. Very inspirational testimony. Thank you.
 My name's Carla Nutt. I live in Lads Edition. I'm a fifth-generation Oregonian, and I've lived in Portland since 91 and from 92 being in Lads. I've been on the Friends of Lads Edition's gardens board for several years, so has my husband. And I'm here today representing the neighbors of Lads Edition and our extended community.
 I'd really like you to please not eliminate the $100,000 that we had originally dedicated to the maintenance of our four-row gardens and our one rhododendron garden that's with five parks in our neighborhood.
 I can't even think about how many hours our neighbors have spent in these parks, not only enjoying themselves but also working side-by-side with the city in deadheading roses, adopt-a-rose programs, and weeding and mulching and many, many other countless activities. And we enjoy that. But we really can't do it on our own. I don't know how.
 We would maintain all of the roses. There's so many. And we couldn't do them justice. They are test gardens. And I just don't even know how we would begin to know, have the knowledge to maintain them. Some of the neighbors who live in our neighborhood are aging, as many of our neighbors are. And...
 Some of them I spoke with this week to ask them what they would want me to say to you. And some of our neighbors can't leave their homes very easily anymore, so the Lads Gardens are their only parks that they can visit. And so I speak here on behalf of them. I did a little bit of research. I'm sure I didn't do it justice, but...
 I have a couple questions because I don't understand. Our neighborhood is historically designated. It's on the National Historic Register.
 And so I did a little research and I looked up Oregon revised statute number 358.653. That dictates that the city of Portland could not remove funding for these parks based on the language that I saw within that document. And also, if you read the section 7, page 7.21,
 of the application form for the National Registry of Historical Places for LADS additions, you'll see that all five of the gardens are contributing resources. They're contributing factors toward that historical designation.
 So I think we also need to consider that they're contributing factors. And believe me, I've been told what I can and can't do with my house, which is fine, because that's why I chose to live there for the historical greatness of the neighborhood. But I hope that also the city will respect the historical status of our neighborhood. Thank you.
 I'm going to have to ask you to wrap it up pretty soon. Oh, great. Okay, I've got 29 seconds. No, it's actually counting up now. Oh, I'm over? Oh, I'm sorry. If you have a couple more points, go ahead. Oh, gosh, I'm so sorry. No worries.
 Well, I'll skip part of it. But I just have a question. Do the gardens revert back to the lattice state if they are not cared for to the terms set in the transfer of the gardens to the city of Portland? That's one of my questions. I have some other questions. I'll email them to you. Okay. That's good, and we'll respond to those. Okay. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Next three, please. Are Star Stauffer, Ramon de Luna Luvano, and Jennifer Fung responsible?
 And those are the last three who signed up. Very good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Council. Star Stauffer, for those who don't know me, but I find that hard to believe at this point. I want to parrot some of the things that Sarah and Antigonus brought up in regards to
 the team of police that deals with mental health crisis. And the reason that I'm concerned is because most of the police shootings in the past 10 years here in the city of Portland have involved people who were in a mental health crisis. So in that regards, the program seems almost like lip service in a lot of ways. I understand that it's
 reduce the recidivism rate for people who are repeat offenders or struggling chronically with these types of ailments. However, what I find interesting is that that glowing report in that regard did not take into account how many people the police have shot here in Portland over the last 10 years that were actually in a mental health crisis.
 And I think if we're going to really talk about that, we need to also talk about the ways in which the Portland police have actually damaged the community and contributed to their mental health crises and how they are not necessarily and most often...
 seriously dangerous to people who are in a mental health crisis. They've proven time and again that they cannot handle that type of situation. So perhaps some of the money can go to training these police outside of that particular team on how to better handle those types of individuals so that they're not pulling the trigger as often as they are. The other...
 concern that I have is in regards to the student bus passes. I understand it's not considered necessarily a core service, I just find it interesting that we're having this conversation about TriMet considering that, I mean, and I know you guys are tired of hearing it, but it is relevant to this particular issue, giving, you know, free rides to known hate groups and white supremacists
 who have harassed a march where people of color were marching and then having a discussion about whether or not we should be providing bus passes for youth to get to and from school and summer programs. Also, again, it seems a little disgusting and distasteful. This is an investment in our children's education. It's an investment in our children's safety. It's an investment in our children being able to participate in year-round activities outside of the home. And to be able to be
 be transported around our city and be involved in things outside of their own neighborhood. So to me, it just seems like it's in the city's best interest to be investing in the youth in that regard. I don't think it's asking that much. I did like the comment where Saltzman said that it seems that all it takes to get funding is that people have to show up to city council.
 And he was quite flippant about it. That's not true. We've been coming here week after week after week since December, begging and pleading to be brought to the table to get funds allocated to really seriously help and sustain programs for our houseless neighbors. And that hasn't been the case, and it hasn't been well received. So we're also begging and pleading for funds to be allocated to families who have lost families
 loved ones due to police violence. And that hasn't been well received or even talked about. So I think that that comment was quite flippant and distasteful, just because you're not getting the money you want for your affluent park.
 And in that regard, I'd like you to take some time, maybe have a work session to go over. I know you're going to do that with the bus passes, but really talk about these things because that's not the case, Mr. Saltzman, as you have seen time and again. And I take exception to that. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to ask you to wrap it up. I don't care. Okay, thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Oh, my mic. Good afternoon. My name is Ramon de Luna-Luebono. I'm a ninth grader at Madison High School. And I've been a part of OPWL's youth leadership group, Youth Environmental Justice Alliance, for over a year and a half now. Youth PASS is an issue that I am really passionate about because my siblings and I attend different high schools. And we've had different experiences with youth access to transit. I grew up watching my older brother struggle to get to school.
 and accessing important needs because we didn't have youth pass. He was a student at David Douglas and during the time he struggled paying for bus tickets every day. And as a student who currently goes to Madison, I know that it's a relief not having to worry about how to find the money when I need to go somewhere.
 I don't have to deal with the fear of being stranded somewhere without money to take the bus. For many families of color and students, I can't stress enough how important Youth Pass is to us. At the Youth Environmental Justice Alliance, students like me have been putting lots of efforts onto this campaign. We designed surveys to understand the conditions in East Portland schools and worked with the school administration to collect over 2,500 surveys.
 We met with Principal Beyer at David Douglas to go over our key fundings, testified at the school boards of David Douglas and Park Rose, and informed many adults on what equity should look like. In meetings with the Multnomah Youth Commission, we would sit together to look at data regarding PPS in East Portland school districts and talk about proposals and options for youth PESTS.
 I'm saying this because it's important to recognize the work and leadership of young people on this issue. Our continued ask of the City, besides sustaining and expanding Youth Pass to East Portland, is that we want adults to make space for youth in the process of these decisions. With the new amendment, youth can be valued in weighing in and sharing what we know to make sure that it's equitable and well-planned.
 We support using the funds to support the three different school districts. But what we want to see is a plan to have city representatives, youth leaders, and school districts to talk through what the rollout plan and arrangement looks like. I know we can make that happen because we have been in communication with some of these people already.
 I personally appreciate that the City Council is talking about an equity approach. I know that students at Yejah and NYC are glad that our elected officials are listening to our feedback. We hope that you can all continue to support Youth Pass and commit to the follow-up work that is needed. This will be a huge step towards the right direction. We are ready and engaged. Thank you. Thank you. Excellent testimony. Commissioner Fritz. I speak for Commissioner Newdaily. We hope you'll be part of the work session tomorrow.
 figure it out. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jennifer. I'm the organizer at Opal Youth, Opal Environmental Justice Oregon. I have a lot of what the young people would say feels right now because I think we've been talking about expansion of youth paths for many years. Actually, the community has been talking about it. I've joined this work the last two years and it's exciting to see that
 the city council is taking action to make it equitable. We are really excited to be part of the work group, working closely with Commissioner Udaly's office on convening those who are most affected, and also the stakeholders in that. I think that in regards to the role of the city and where the state and the school districts land in this arrangement,
 I would say it's not that easy to advocate at the state level.
 I think that if it's that hard to figure out the different conditions between PPS and the East Portland school districts, it's even harder statewide to look at the different conditions between rural and urban cities. And that's an issue that I've been learning about personally through our advocacy at OPAL, because since 2015, we've actually been advocating at a state level for a youth transit bill. It didn't pass. It created a work group. And this year, we're trying again at another youth transit bill.
 And I think that we recognize that there is a role for the state to play to make sure that there are sustained funds, helping school districts to increase their capacity to fund this. But all in all, I think that we want collaboration in the city to make sure that, you know, all these other government levels are involved. So thank you so much. Yeah, happy to do that. Thank you. Appreciate that. Was there any other public testimony? Others who didn't get to sign up requested to speak if you wanted to take them.
 How many do you have? I know of one. Just one? Come on up. Thank you. And this will be the last one. Last gentleman. Come on up, sir. I feel so out of place. I thank you guys for listening to me. I've tried to call your office, Mr. Wheeler, a couple times.
 Because over the last six years, I came from the East Coast in Virginia. I'm sorry, could you state your name for the record? My name is John. Thanks, John. Right, from Virginia. If a policeman ever sees me doing something crazy on the street, comes to ask me what my name is, I'm John. What's your name, brother? And the automatic response I get is his first name, how you doing, and it goes on. Could I have mental health issues? Yeah. Could it be caused because...
 What most mental health issues are is probably people involved in substance. And if you can't rule out a substance abuse in mental health issues, there's a problem. There's a problem around here with substance abuse. Okay. The homeless problem. Part of the problem is you guys put it in the media that there's a homeless problem because there are people that really care. They're out on the streets muddying.
 any kind of success that anybody could have because they're catering to folks that are learning that they don't have to fend for themselves in Portland. I've got a nice work truck. I left my tools in Chicago. I wanted to talk today because I have to go back there next week. What I wanted to propose is I heard you guys talking about a work session and I have a whole lot of ideas. I
 I don't know if you've ever seen footage of a guy with a trombone being the fool in your town. But I've seen police on a lot of occasions seeing what I'm doing and videotaping me. And I'm like, if you're going to take me, single cell, please, because I can't.
 Oh, my gosh, this is legal. Guys, this is legal to have fun. Like, why aren't you guys having fun? I was a leprechaun. Three wishes. Get where you're going safely. Have more fun in your lives. And get back home to the people that you care about so you can think about what's really important. And when I hear about training, paid training to get a paid job, I hear entitlement in my head to where this –
 system that could possibly start up with generational birth defects just because people don't care about dimes. Hey, I look like somebody that needs dimes. I'll go grab one. I hope you don't give me a literary ticket and make sure the people that saw me pick it up throw it down too. Y'all don't need your dimes? I don't neither. You know what? They don't matter, do they? Now somebody gets to think about that. So what I do is really abrasive. I've put myself through this training in my life that when I look back, like,
 Oh, my gosh, I've trained myself to do something big if I can get in with the right people. It was the police and a group that deals with the mental health. They called themselves the Angels a few years back, but always come down to where we were playing guitar on the weekend, 3rd and Silverado, where the gay guys are because they have money and they don't mind giving it to guys. Standing there playing a trombone in their boxer shorts because...
 It's something different. That's something I like about Portland. And that's the reason that I'm here instead of like Denver where they asked me to, why don't you come with our homeless rights group and speak to the city? Because I don't know what y'all have done over the last few years, but the city is not trying to hear.
 But here in Portland and the climate and the deal, there are public lands everywhere. There are so many really good. I'm not associated with the Rainbow family. I don't like them. The responsibility that they take is a publicity thing. They're not thinking about their cause correctly. And they have all their different reasons for doing it. And that's great. But I want to be able to present an idea to you guys when I get back from a job that I have in Chicago.
 I came out here to work, but I'm going to stay on vacation. But I need to work, so I'm going to Chicago. And the money that I make and the truck that I have, I'm willing to donate to a not-for-profit beyond the board if Portland would be interested in thinking or hearing about the thing. So I'm willing to give everything I have. We appreciate that. Thank you. Safe travels. Well, I'm also asking, the question is, is there any way that I could set up some type of, with the information that I've given you and the fact that I know that I can go in the woods and show
 15 people that I know well on the streets, trust and respect, family to me now because they've taken care of me, how to live properly using human or setups and composting, stuff that you guys could be doing instead of the porta-potties down there where the policeman that asked me to come over here was like, what's going on here? I was like, I know you guys don't know. We'd be happy to talk to you. So if you could reach out to my staff and give some contact information. Okay. And it's going to be in about a month or so. I'm going to be back. I don't have time.
 I don't have a whole lot of time in my life to – I'm not dying, I don't think, or anything. But I wanted to go ahead and organize the chance to be able to talk to you guys seriously about these ideas where I had more than three minutes somehow. I appreciate it. And I like your two ideas about have fun and get home at the end of the day. And the idea of funding to get everything that people need to stay out of your city. Thank you. All right. Andrew, you want to come back up?
 So it's my understanding that at this point we vote to approve the budget as amended. Is that correct?
 That is correct. So I just called the roll. Could I just ask for one clarification in response to Mary Sipes' testimony? Mayor or Commissioner Fritsch, could you tell me what is happening about the age-friendly cities funding and experience PDX, et cetera? So my understanding, Commissioner Fritsch, is that there were two different proposals that were pitched.
 The mayor has chosen to fund one, which loosely fits within the family of age-friendly. There is a second ask that has to do with a position at PSU and a set of programs. What I have concluded is that we need to do some additional work to lay the foundation for an ask. The mayor has some questions about the program and its effectiveness.
 And it seems to me appropriate to have that conversation before we come forward with an ask. And I have reserved the right to come forward with an ordinance to fund a position. But I don't think it's cooked yet, and I would like to respect the process and have a stronger foundation for an ask. Okay, that's fine. I'm very supportive of the program, as you know, so I'm just glad to know it's still in progress. Yes.
 Were there any further questions? Just one comment, because, Andrew, we technically have one more vote in June.
 Correct? That is right. Yeah, today you are approving the budget as the Budget Committee, and you come back as City Council in June to adopt the budget. So we're approving the budget, then we're going to adopt the budget, and most of you in the audience are already exhausted from this process, which has been going on for months and months and months. By tradition, we, in approving the budget today, each of us takes an opportunity to thank some folks and to make a few comments.
 There's another opportunity in June, but this is usually where we do that. So I just want to make that note. Okay. Very good. Is there any further comment before we get to the roll call? Please call the roll. So, Mayor and colleagues, I'm very pleased to support this budget. And, Mayor, I want to compliment you for what I believe has been an unusually collaborative and collegial process. And you set the tone early.
 The budget before us addresses many of the issues that I care about personally and includes targeted and strategic funding for our shared priorities. In particular, I want to highlight that it directs a $50 million down payment on Build Portland, a bold initiative that the mayor has proposed to tackle our backlog of street maintenance and repair. Invest significant new funds in Vision Zero, affirming our belief that one death on our streets is too many.
 continues our commitment to partnering with the county to fight homelessness in our community, and affirms our plan to streamline the delivery of services to people most in need. And I want to acknowledge the mayor's early work to build a strong partnership with County Chair Deborah Caffori. That relationship is crucial to our success going forward.
 It continues investments in highly successful programs that support our neighborhood small businesses. It supports the Rose Festival, Portland's official and award-winning festival. It continues to show discipline with ratepayer dollars, focusing on basic services like resilience and water quality. And the budget continues general fund support for improvements at Mount Tabor, work we're doing in partnership with the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association.
 We have partially restored funding for the arts, and we have funded the first-ever performance audit of the Regional Arts and Culture Council. And the mayor and I will be officially requesting that audit this week. The budget also funds new ranger positions in East Portland to work upstream with the community to solve problems. This is a program near and dear to Commissioner Fritz and my heart.
 Finally, this budget launches a program I'm very excited about called Project Search, which brings the city together with nonprofits to provide work opportunities for people with intellectual disabilities. Utilities will be piloting this program starting this summer, and I hope it proves successful and that we're able to expand it throughout the city.
 Mayor, again, I want to thank you for leading what has been, I think, a very productive process. This is your first year as mayor. I would say your first 100 days were eventful. And on top of all the other challenges you faced, you have led us through a budget process, which I think has led us to a budget that I hope earns the support of all your colleagues. And if it does, that will be a milestone.
 I also want to acknowledge your staff, Mayor, including your Chief of Staff, Maurice, and your Deputy Chief, Kristen, in particular, for the role that they have played in consulting with your colleagues on the second floor. I want to especially thank my council colleagues. We had a 40 percent turnover of the council this year. We have two new members who, in my view, have changed the chemistry of this council in very important ways. And I like where we're headed, and I appreciate their voices and perspectives.
 I want to thank Andrew Scott and the Budget Office, and as Sonia put in here, and his incomparable team, Sonia's adjective. And we're lucky to have an independent budget office that has the skilled professionals who work there, and we frankly could not do our work without their assistance. I also want to thank my team for their hard work, and led by Sonia Schmansky, my chief of staff. That wasn't intended to be a laugh line. Will you thank my team, too? Okay.
 I want to thank my team and led by my incomparable chief of staff, Sonia Schmansky. By the way, this is the first day in council for the newest member of my team, Amira Streeter, who we stole from the Urban League. She is a graduate of Lewis and Clark Law School, and colleagues, she will be helping to lead our work in Superfund. Amira, would you stand just so we can recognize you on your first day here? We are very excited to have her leadership on our team.
 And lastly, I want to thank everyone who attended a forum, sent an email or a letter, came in for a meeting, and made their voices heard. Thank you to all of you. Your advocacy has led to a better budget for the community we love. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udemy? My apologies, Commissioner Fish. I am overdue to depart and feeling a little sad.
 I would like to thank everyone that Commissioner Fish just thanked, as well as my team. This has been a fascinating and informative process. I feel like I've gotten to know my colleagues better, and I'm really happy with where we arrived with the budget. Aye. Fritz.
 Well Mayor Wheeler, this is definitely a budget to be proud of for your first year as Mayor. And I appreciate both your responsiveness to all of our concerns and the way that you've helped us all work together. And each of my colleagues comes under that category. All of our Bureau staff, and particularly our Budget Advisory Committee, is doing enormous amounts of work over what seems like six to nine months. And it's got a very short break with all those work sessions before we get back to the next year's budget.
 But it's important because each year we make very specific funding decisions and our Bureau of Budgets Advisory Committees are essential to that. And so I particularly want to thank Mike Abate and the park staff and Lisa St. Helen and the...
 Emergency Communications User Board. And I'll also add my thanks to the Budget Office, which remains something that I'm very happy we got going. What's funded and what's not funded is also part of this, and I do want to recognise that we did take cuts. There are several things that were not... many things that are not funded that people were hoping would be funded. We heard today about the Lads Edition Gardeners and the Brooklyn Park, and there are others, especially through parks...
 where things are not funded and we know we've got more work to do. So I'm looking forward to working on those issues under the guidance of Tim Crow, my Chief of Staff, and in fact all my staff.
 The Build Portland initiative, it's bold, it's a legacy project, and I'm happy that I'm going to be involved in it for the next three-plus years. I'm very happy with the $250,000 for the open and accountable elections and the budget note that says, yes, we are going to have it implemented by 2020. So that is...
 Very significant to me and I know to many of our community members who are hoping for more representation at every level. The four parks ranges that are funded in East Portland with ongoing money, it's the first time that the council has allocated parks ranges specifically to East Portland. Previously they've all been on the west side. And so we're starting to address some of the key equity challenges that were evident when I first started and perhaps even more evident now.
 We're starting the health, safety and environmental programs in parks, like the school districts dealing with lead and paint, paint, lead water, asbestos. A lot of our infrastructure is failing. And so I'm very happy that we...
 Several years ago, Commissioner Saltzman and Fish and I passed a binding city resolution saying that half of all one-time money has to go to infrastructure maintenance. This year has been the benefit of the Transportation Bureau, which is getting $7.2 million that it otherwise would not necessarily have got, because a lot of these maintenance projects are not particularly fun or sexy and expensive.
 there are still things that, even with the parks at the end, with the allocations, it's challenging. And I know that I've got work to do if I'm reassigned the Parks Bureau to get the Lansu Chinese Garden roof done, to get the leaking basements in Pittock Mansion done. Everybody who came in to talk with us in our budget sessions, whether you got what you wanted or not, your comments were not lost on us. And just because we're...
 Accepting this budget and moving it forward doesn't mean that we won't try to continue to work with neighbours on things like the Lads Edition Park. We rely on volunteers in Portland Parks and Recreation, so we need to continue to support them as we need to.
 25 million plus for the Joint Office of Homeless Services, that's a lot of money. When people come and say that they were not doing anything, I just keep thinking, well, 25 million is a lot of money, particularly in conjunction with the tripling of the Housing Bureau's budget over the time that I've been on the council. Okay.
 I'm satisfied that we have had a process for the marijuana tax money and I very much appreciate all of my colleagues' support on that. Looking forward to the participatory budgeting on the remaining half a million of it. Also to the programs of
 process for the special appropriation grants. And that's again, so if you did not get what you wanted in this budget today, we have a million dollars set aside for special appropriations which anybody can apply to, and a committee made up of staffers from the five offices in City Hall will allocate that money. And so there's a lot of opportunities for partnership with the city. That's what makes our city so great. Just a couple of other things. The Vision Zero money is
 very significant and we need to do more. Yes, we need to do more to support both our police officers and people who are impacted by police officer decisions in our community. We will continue to do that. We will continue to work on the settlement agreement with the Department of Justice, whether the Department of Justice decides to want us to or not. That is something that Mayor Wheeler has been committed to, just like Mayor Hales and Mayor Adams were before him.
 and I will continue to work on it. I'm particularly happy that we got the community services officers pilot in Portland Police Bureau wanting to be involved as you implement that, Mayor Wheeler. So just generally, a lot of work has been done by everybody. Thank you very much. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Well, Dan stole my speech, so I'm going to have to go in a different direction. I'm sure you have enough time. I believe it's to our credit as a council and a sign that we have clear priorities that this budget was passed with little fanfare and even less controversy. The City of Portland is poised to make significant investments to improve our roads, address homelessness, and foster economic growth.
 The Council approved an initial investment of $50 million in critical infrastructure that will grow to $600 million over 20 years. We approved a $25 million investment in the Joint Office of Homelessness Services to provide rent assistance, shelter, and housing placement. We've increased funding to minimize the impacts of homelessness as they relate to public health, safety, and livability.
 And we've invested in coordinated efforts to promote workforce development to ensure that Portlanders are prepared for the high-skill, high-wage jobs that will define our economy in the years ahead. I want to thank my colleagues here and your staffs.
 for approaching this budget with an approach defined by a collaborative problem-solving and fiscal discipline perspective. Like Chloe, I learned a lot during this budget process, and this is really all of our work together.
 and it's something that I believe we as a council can be very proud of. So I've appreciated this process. I've appreciated the time and the energy that you've all put into it, and I look forward to doing this many times in the years ahead. Thank you all. Aye. The budget is approved as amended.
 Commissioner Udaly, can we borrow you for two more minutes? Oh, gee. I know. I know. So we have to also approve the tax levies. So let me just read the formal ORS script. The city shall levy its full permanent rate of $4.5770 per $1,000 of assessed value and $17,590,351 for the payment of voter-approved general obligation and bond principal and interest and $1,000,000 of assessed value.
 and $155,553,793 for the obligations for the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund, and $0.4026 per $1,000.
 of assessed value for the children's levy. Furthermore, the city shall levy the amounts listed in Attachment E for urban renewal collections. I'll entertain a motion to approve the tax levies. So moved. So moved by Commissioner Saltzman. Seconded. Seconded by Commissioner Udaly. Any further conversation on the levies, please call the roll. Carla.
 Fish. Mayor, I have a 20-minute statement I'd like to read for the record on this. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. This is a good reminder. What we're spending is taxpayers' money, and we're trying to do it as wisely as possible. And thank you to those who live in this great city and work in this great city. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The tax levies are approved. This meeting of the City Portland Budget Committee is now adjourned. Thank you to the Budget Office. And I know we still have more work to do. May I take a three-minute compassion break? All right, three minutes. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Those of you waiting for the Portland Development Commission, now known as Prosper Portland, will be up in three minutes.
 So Mayor, I felt it interesting that you went to high school with David Banksburg. I am very good friends with David Banksburg. Now what decision of student council did you vote for and with that I gave the impression you should have acted on? As you can guess, he's like a nice learner than I am. But he said you were more popular and more interesting than him.
 Thank you.
 I didn't want to take your name. I knew I was going to press limit with my testimony today, but I was making a habit of it. I didn't know if your thank you had a bit of irritation to it. No, I'm pleased you're here. Okay, I'm glad we talked. All right, go home and have fun. Another hour. Oh, I bet well.
 I don't know.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 You have to do it again. And she's left, right? Yes. I'm opposing it. Do whatever you want. I'm not going to scream at all. That's not the statement. No. All right. Pam, are we good to go? Sure. I think Commissioner Daley is excused. Okay.
 All right, folks, we are now convening the Prosper Portland Budget Committee for the purpose of approving the fiscal year 2017-18 budget. The budget committee members received copies of the Prosper Portland's initial budget approval change memo on Tuesday, May 9th, and a revised change memo and a resolution on Friday, May 12th. I now request that Pam call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Or here? Udailey? Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. I'm now calling for a motion to consider the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the change memo and Exhibit A. So moved. Second. Commissioner Fritz moves. Commissioner Saltzman seconds. We will now call up staff for discussion. And just for clarity...
 Commissioner Udailey in the last conversation allocated some one-time funds to Prosper Portland to fund the second cohort of small business owners in the INCREASE project.
 And so we need to offer up an amendment. Why don't I do that right now so I don't forget to do that? I'll read the full amendment. Allocate $87,500 of one-time general fund resources to Prosper Portland to fund a second cohort of small business owners in Prosper Portland's increased project. The funding source for this ad will be an $87,500 one-time reduction to the general fund contingency fund.
 And she called for amending attachments B, C, and E as necessary. Could I get a second? Second. So that motion is on the table. Commissioner Fritz seconds it. Clarification, do we need to vote on that now like we did in the last section? Let's call the roll, please, Pam. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted.
 Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience. Good afternoon. So I'm Kimberly Branham, Executive Director at Prosper Portland, formerly known as Portland Development Commission. And we are here to go over the changes. And Tony Barnes, our Budget Officer, is going to walk through those briefly. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, Tony Barnes, budget officer with Prosper Portland. The change memo that was introduced on May 9th includes three amendments to the original proposed budget in addition to the just passed amendment to bring the city budget, the Prosper Portland budget in sync with the City of Portland general fund budget. So those three changes are an additional $66,000 in one-time funding for Venture Portland that was added in,
 $100,000 in adjustments related to the carryover committed funds from the 16-17 spring bump, as well as the housing set-aside budget adjustment of about $5 million to sync up the Portland Housing Bureau approved budget with the Prosper Portland approved budget for set-aside funds. Those actions identified in Exhibit A would bring the budget in line with the approved City of Portland budget.
 Very good. And, Commissioners, are there any additional amendments you'd like to make to the change memo, to add to the change memo? Well, I was interested in finding out more about Accelerate Oregon and what was done there with respect to the funding, for lack thereof.
 Sure. Thank you, Commissioner. So, um, Accelerate Oregon is both a, uh, fund that supports women, um, who are looking and who are preparing themselves to be invested in. And so they're putting together a fund, um, and, uh,
 Prosper Portland has secured $30,000 to help them with some of their initial business planning. They put in as part of the Small Business Technical Assistance Program and the INCREASE project, and we had wanted to invest in them at $100,000 but only had $50,000. So the amendment that Commissioner Udaly put forward will mean that they can be fully funded at the $100,000 level. Thank you.
 Oh, the amendment that we just... Yes. The one we adopted. Oh, okay. The one that you adopted. Oh, I didn't realize that had anything to do with Accelerate. Okay, great. Yeah, yes. Great. Any further questions? Any further information you care to impart on us? Is there any public testimony on the PDC budget? Yes. Could I ask how many people? Two. All right. If you guys want to take a seat, we'll bring up public testimony. And again, thank you very much for your patience. Please call them up. Igor Prostenko. Hello.
 Janae De La Rosa? They signed up. That's for the next item. Oh. Anybody want to testify on the PROSPER Portland, formerly known as the PDC budget? Yes.
 Very good. That actually catches us up. I'm now calling to entertain a motion to vote to approve the budget amendments in Exhibit A of the Resolution 7233 as amended. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz second. Any further discussion, please call the roll.
 Fish? Well, first I want to compliment PDC on the rebranding. I'm proudly displaying my new mug and coaster on my desk. But I think it's appropriate to re-imagine, just as PDC has to now re-imagine itself and come up with a new funding model, I think it's appropriate to come up with a new name and reintroduce yourself to the community.
 I'm old enough to remember when this part of our budget process was very contentious, and we had a lot of people coming forward with testimony and concerns. So the fact that we don't have a lot of people here means that the process has worked and people have been able to comment and weigh in at earlier stages, and so I appreciate that. Speaking just for myself, I think it's critical to our future that we have a strong,
 and dynamic, prosper Portland. Now, what it looks like and how it functions and how it's funded is to be determined.
 But I think we should err on the side of unleashing the entrepreneurial potential for Prosper Portland, which means, I think, having a conversation in the near term about potentially assigning certain responsibilities currently performed by the city to Prosper Portland to go beyond managing certain assets and instead thinking of ways of leveraging and developing certain assets.
 That's for another day. That conversation and also how we're going to be providing stable funding over time is another day. One last comment. During my eight or nine years, we've had this ongoing discussion about whether we should focus on placemaking or whether we should focus on economic development. At the end of the day, I think we should focus on people. This is a great city because of people.
 And when people have opportunities and are able to live here and prosper, a lot of other good things happen. And so I think it starts with people.
 And I think the new sharper focus of the agency on creating opportunity for people who have been historically left out and the idea of creating wealth in communities that lag, and the whole idea of a rising tide lifts all boats, I think is vitally important. Along the way we can continue to build a beautiful city, but a beautiful city that people can't afford to live in is called a museum.
 And what we want is a city where people can live and thrive and also enjoy a livable community and without regard to their status. So I'm pleased to support this budget, and I look forward to playing a role in helping to reimagine Prosper Portland. Hi. Saltzman? Hi. Fritz? Hi.
 Well, thank you, Director Branham, and all of your staff. I agree with Commissioner Fish that the agency has made a lot of progress and, in fact, has been the leader on a lot of our equity initiatives and has done very well with that. So I appreciate your focus on women and minorities in emerging small businesses and hope that will be the focus moving on. I appreciate also that the Mayor had deleted the budget note regarding the future of the Commission and the work being done.
 deserves a very full public input and discussion that needs to happen outside of the budget process. And so I appreciate the fact that you allowed that to happen in a more orderly way. And I look forward to participating in those discussions. And thank you again for all the work that you do in our community. Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 I want to extend my thanks to Director Branham and her team, and I'm highly supportive of the work that you're doing, particularly around economic prosperity. And I also think that the rebranding is a strong statement. It's a commitment. It's written in a way that I think is important.
 effectively blood as far as all of us are concerned that we're going to answer the call you put out there, which is who benefits. And we're going to make sure that communities that are impacted by development are the first to benefit from development. And I know you're committed to that. I know you have a team in place committed to that. And I think about all of the amazing opportunities that lie ahead for us today.
 and they have the potential to be transformational for this city in lots of different ways, not just in terms of the look and feel and character of the community, but also how it lifts the community and who it lifts in the community. So I look forward to being part of that process over a period of many, many years. I will happily vote aye. That means the budget.
 for Prosper Portland is approved as amended. And we are now adjourning the Prosper Portland Budget Committee meeting. Thank you. Thank you, Pam. And now we are reconvening as the Portland City Council. I need another roll call. I don't know. Do we need another roll call as a reconvened body? We probably do. We should because we're the city council. Why don't you call the roll just to be on the safe side, just so people don't say we were never here. Fish? Hi. Hi.
 Here, excuse me. Feltzman. Here. Udaly. Fritz. Still here. Wheeler. Here and I. All right, good. The one and last remaining item. Item 518. Thank you.
 Work System, Inc., update on workforce development activities presentation. Very good. So with that, I will call up our friends from Work Systems, Inc., who are going to update us on some of the fantastic work they've done. This is directly related to the work, of course, of Prosper Portland as well. This is a strong partnership, a regional partnership that we're engaged in and heavily involved in.
 And by agreement previously, I'll turn this over to the Director of Work Systems, and he can tee us off. And if you could all just re-identify yourself for the record. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. For the record, Andrew McGough, Director of Work Systems. Hi, I'm Jennifer Chang with the Portland Housing Bureau.
 Sure. So I'll start off. So good afternoon, Mayor and City Commissioners. We're pleased to share the outcomes and personal stories of the Economic Opportunity Program, or EOP, in promoting employment and career advancement opportunities for very low-income households in Portland. The program started in 2004 as part of the city's broader strategic plan for reducing poverty through economic opportunity.
 EOP has an annual budget of about $2.7 million, which is a combination of both city general funds and federal community development block grants that are administered through the Housing Bureau.
 Prosper Portland, formerly Portland Development Commission, oversees the program and aligns the workforce resources with their economic growth and neighborhood prosperity initiatives. And Work Systems, which serves as our local workforce investment board, administers the services through dozens of partnerships with community-based employment providers.
 EOP provides critical support for families and individuals to gain income and increase their earning potential, which enables them to secure and maintain stable housing. Through the work of A Home for Everyone in recent years, we've been able to invest additional resources to increase the program's capacity to particularly focus on serving more people who are experiencing homelessness or at imminent risk of losing their housing.
 By the end of this current fiscal year, we anticipate serving at least 300 additional households who are homeless or at risk of homeless through some very strategic, connected employment, housing, and culturally specific services that have been available through Home for Everyone and the Bureau.
 So thank you for investing in this important program. It really effectively leverages federal and local resources to promote economic opportunities for households in Portland. And at this time, I'd like to turn it over to Kimberly and Andrew to speak more about how the interagency partnership is effectively working. Thank you.
 Thanks, Jennifer. I'm Kimberly Branham, Executive Director at Prosper Portland. Really pleased to be here today to talk about what is a story of effective collaboration and alignment and impact.
 And you're going to hear some stories later today about what that means on the ground. But from an institution to institution level, I think we're really pleased to have such deep collaboration and connections between the Portland Housing Bureau, Prosper Portland, and Work Systems.
 So, as you know, Prosper Portland is focused on increasing access to quality employment as well as advancing opportunities for prosperity, collaborating with partners for an equitable city and creating vibrant neighborhoods. We rely on many partnerships to increase access to quality jobs and workforce development is truly a critical component of ensuring individuals have the access and skills they need to find meaningful employment.
 Prosper Portland's workforce investments aim to connect people of color and low-income residents to high-quality job opportunities and career tracks. We do this by working closely with our neighborhood and community and higher education partners, as well as our target industry employers, and, of course, with work systems. Together, we're finding ways to most effectively connect people to job opportunities.
 So together we're collaborating with our nonprofit partners to ensure equitable opportunities and access. For example, Southeast Works provides employment and referral services directly to job seekers at the Rosewood Community Center, which is a neighborhood prosperity initiative district.
 Together, we're influencing business behavior to align with our inclusive economic growth priorities. Through the Tech Town Diversity Pledge, Prosper Portland convenes 22 companies to participate in collective actions such as equity trainings, data tracking, and peer-to-peer learning opportunities. These companies employ more than 2,000 employees who will benefit from actions to facilitate an inclusive company culture.
 Together, we're aligning services supported by our funding with career pathways towards living wage jobs. In the last five years, Prosper Portland has invested just over half a million dollars in workforce training at enterprise zone participating companies, allowing more than 300 employees access to career growth and development opportunities.
 Together, we're connecting our physical investments with workforce investments by applying our equitable contracting policies and through initiatives like the Division Transit Project, where partners are committed to providing residents in the corridor with increased employment.
 And finally, we're strengthening our partnerships with work systems and providers to change how we collectively engage with diverse and historically underrepresented communities, where we're pivoting from an exclusive focus on anti-poverty to a broader focus on prosperity and going from just surviving to really thriving. And so that's the story that we hope you'll hear today.
 Good afternoon. I'm Andrew Goff. I'm the Director of Work Systems and a proud partner in the Economic Opportunity Initiative. As Jennifer mentioned, this program has been around for quite a while, 2004 to be exact, and it's been evolving ever since. And I think really the important thing to take away from this, I think I've talked to you all a number of times before –
 is these are challenging times for large segments of our community, and the only way that we can solve those is by working together. And I think that this program really does demonstrate
 the institutional collaboration as well as the community collaboration that we need to really move people from poverty to prosperity. Have I said something funny? Mr. Smucker, we're both distracted by the image here. What are we looking at there? I think you're looking at people covered in clay.
 Uh, and, and my hope is that someone can be more explicit than that. Um, I'm guessing this looks like that growler place, but, um, it's amazing. It's a, you know, it's out on Sandy and it's a bunch of slackers created this growler place. And anyway, it may not be, but the bottom line is I love what you said earlier, commissioner fish. And I, and I think that,
 I get the sense that the whole council realizes this is really about people.
 And ultimately, we think we will thrive if our people thrive. That economic development will come if we have the people that can help that kind of growth. And that's what this program is really about. And so without further ado, I'd like to hand it over to Patrick Gearing, who is our chief program officer. And he'll walk us through this presentation and tell you what these guys are covered in. Great. Excellent. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi, good afternoon. Thanks for having us. I'm Patrick Gearing, Chief Program Officer at Work Systems, and I'm going to do a brief overview of the funding and the program. I think we lost the PowerPoint, but it's okay. Oh, we're good. So funding for the workforce development of the program, as Jennifer said, is about $2.7 million.
 annually and serves about 1,100 Portlanders every year. The population served are low-income Portland residents. The eligibility requirement is that they're below 50% of median family income. Almost all of them, though, are below 30% of median family income. There's a programmatic focus on homeless, people at imminent risk of eviction, residents of public housing, ex-offenders, immigrants, and communities of color.
 Citi funding for this program supports career coaching provided by a network of 11 community-based partners, some of whom you'll hear from this afternoon. And the program design ties the strength of our community-based partners to the strengths and services and resources within the public workforce system, which WorkSystems oversees.
 On top of this investment made by the city, Work Systems adds over $6 million in federal, state, and local services annually to serve more people and to enhance the services of this program. This includes about $2.5 million annually to increase the number of career coaches and the number of community-based organizations partnering within this program, $1.8 million for occupational training to support entry into high-growth programs,
 career track occupations that are aligned with target sectors of Prosper Portland and work systems. 1.1 million in on-the-job trainings, paid internships and other work-based learning opportunities and a little over half a million in rent assistance, being a program that serves very low-income people. People are sometimes impacted by homelessness during the course of services and they're able to complete their training and move into employment more effectively while housed.
 If you bring together the city funds as well as the additional resources brought to the table, the total program is about $8.7 million and serves about 1,500 Portlanders annually.
 So I want to thank you for the investment. We want to thank you for the investment made by the city and the Economic Opportunity Program. It makes it possible for us to secure these additional federal matching grants, federal competitive grants, state, local, and other resources for people in Portland. Thanks, Patrick. I'm Stacey Triplett, Community Programs Manager for Portland.
 work systems, I'd like to talk about the population served, the partners, and the results that the EOP program is getting. The EOP community-based providers use their knowledge and expertise to serve specific populations with one-on-one individualized career coaching and occupational training in the community.
 Of course, much of the training is provided through a strong connection to WorkSource Portland Metro resources, which include training scholarships, paid work experiences, and placement support for career track jobs.
 The populations that we're referring to are homeless and housing insecure residents, 26% of our program in the past year. Residents of subsidized housing, folks returning from incarceration, 30% of our participants self-report involvement with the community justice system, criminal justice system. Immigrants and English language learners.
 36% of our population is long-term unemployed. They've been looking for work for 27 weeks or more. That's the Bureau of Labor Statistics definition. 50% hold a high school diploma, GED, or less. Okay.
 16% have completed some post-secondary education without a degree. So those are the populations. And a little bit more on the demographics. As you're familiar, communities of color are overrepresented in low-income populations. That's 54% of our participants. 22% identify as Latino, Latina. 22% African American. So that's a little bit more on who is served.
 In keeping with the priorities that we share that are set by Portland Housing Bureau, Prosper Portland, and Work Systems, all the participants are low income. They're defined as earning 50% of MFI or below. So for a family of four, that would be $36,750.
 more or less. I want to also talk about our partners. So that's who's served. Who's serving them are this list of partners you could see here. The contracted providers are Central City Concern, who was here today but had to leave, so I will introduce their testimony in written format. Thank you. Human Solutions, ERCO, you've heard Southeast Works already. Oregon Tradeswomen is a partner here.
 Constructing Hope and Self-Enhancement, Inc. Self-Enhancement does bring culturally specific services to the program.
 In addition, there's a network of youth-serving organizations that work with young adults. They're eligible to work starting at age 16. You'll hear more about that from our partner here. The youth network is being redesigned to laser focus on young adults who are not working and not in school and to connect them to those in-demand occupations with employers in the targeted sectors that you've heard about, health careers, advanced manufacturing, construction, and IT software. Thank you.
 POIC, you'll hear from today, is one of those youth providers in the network, as well as New Avenues for Youth, Portland Youth Builders, and Native American Youth and Family Center. So those are the partners in the EOP program. That partnership, that network, served over 400 low-income people. Almost 150 of those completed training for credentials that were recognized in their fields.
 76% of those left employed at wages averaging over $13.50 an hour. And I want to kind of note here, averages don't always tell the full story, so $13.50 is one thing. But when you think about our population served,
 So the average wage is $13.50 or actually $13.78 for the last 12 months, something like that. But let's think about how it varies. For the 400 formerly chronically homeless folks that were served by Central City Concern, their average is $11.30, which is –
 a real accomplishment for that population to connect with work and to get onto the path. For the 60 immigrants in the Professional Immigrant Credentialing Program, that average wage was $16.84. So really digging into the details of which populations have which results is part of what this program does. So now I need to focus on some of the additional people that are served. So the city population or the city investment –
 through successful applications for competitive funding, has been able to grow to serve another 825 people within the city of Portland. So they were...
 receiving the same one-on-one career coaching done in community-based organizations, but not funded by the first investment that the city made. The $6 million figure you heard about before is the result of work systems expansion efforts and the strength of the local network of providers. Federal Department of Labor grants, Health and Human Services Administration grant, and a USDA matching grant
 all increase the service that Prosper Portland invests in to more than double the impact. Multnomah County Department of Community Justice, reentry connector, where our participants are getting directly referred from parole officers, and as you've heard before, the joint office, the city funds in the joint office from a home for everyone, funds an extension of the EOP as well.
 That extension helps us to focus on homeless and housing insecure populations, and also it added the Urban League and El Programa Hispano-Catholico to the existing strong network of providers, which increased the culturally specific approaches to work with those communities of color who were in this program and seeking services and support. So I'd like to...
 say the person. Our testimony that we're introducing in writing would have been presented by Frida Caesar, who is the director of the Employment Access Center at Central City Concern. But instead now we'll hear from Joe McFerrin. I got it. For VOIC. Very good. I'm sorry. Very good.
 Yeah, and I just want to state again, thank you for your patience. Obviously, our budget hearing ran long, and so I know that's made your planned presentation more complicated, and I appreciate very much your flexibility. And Joe is great. We like him, so he'll do a fantastic job. Thank you so much, Mayor and City Commissioner, City Council. I'll keep it short, but I will say it's nice. Joe, I'm sorry for the record. You have to read your name in. Joe McFerrin II. Okay.
 President and CEO of POIC and the Rosemary Anderson High School. So just to start off, and I'll keep my comments real brief, it's nice to, you know, on a daily basis, we deal with some of Portland's most at-risk youth and their families. And there isn't a day that goes by that we don't deal with some sort of difficult and sometimes even tragic situation.
 situation. But it's nice and refreshing to come to a meeting like this where people in positions of leadership that impact systems are doing really good work together
 to make a difference in the lives of the people that we serve. So I just wanted to say that. For us, we have been a provider with economic opportunity program and work systems for some time. What I am, and on the youth side for the most part, and I think you guys are pretty much aware of our work on the youth side here,
 But what I'm really excited about, we have had an opportunity through this process to address homelessness with some of our young adults and some of our families as a result of this work. And it's been huge. We've been struggling with this for a very long time. But now, not only do we have...
 a small amount of funding to dedicate to this work, we're also now a part of the network. And I think that in a very short period of time has really built up some capabilities within our organization. And we look forward to working with this particular project around homelessness moving forward because there are so many of our students and families that are dealing with this issue. In our program,
 We serve about 2,000 participants a year. Forty-eight percent are African American, 27%
 6% are Latino, and 23% are low-income white folks that we work with. So we're a pretty diverse organization. The keys to our success for us are in our core beliefs, and one of my staff persons left, and it was on her shirt. But we believe that no matter what, all people have value.
 We believe that all people can grow. And we believe that no matter what problems they're facing, they can contribute to a thriving community. So that kind of stems from our work. And then lastly, about our strategy, I would say it's based in trust and relationships. That's how we are able to get our young people and families moving in the right direction.
 And I'll tie it up there. I mean, the last thing I will say, this work, our core focus is to get young kids, high school age kids, who have disengaged in the educational system, get them back and inspired through education, because we know that's the key. And one of the things that we do that has proven to be most effective is offering a young person an opportunity to work.
 And we believe that an opportunity to work and a work experience is one of the best social service strategies that we have. So thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Thanks to all of you. Hello. Hello. And again, if you could just state your name for the record, that would be great. I don't know who wants to go first. I've never done this before. Okay. I guess I'll go first. We're all a little nervous. Please.
 So I just thank you guys for your time. I know it's been a very long day, and I think it's very important for you guys to understand what all these numbers and all these programs really mean. And for myself, and I know I was down here, I believe, back in September to speak to you on behalf of the CBA and what that program has meant to me. So if you remember some of that, then some of this will be repeated for you about my history. But to understand what I'm going to say, you have to understand where I came from.
 I was a youth. I started running away at the age of 11. I come from an abusive background. I'm primarily my mother. I'm a firstborn generation here in the United States. My father is from La Piedra Michoacan.
 So you can understand that just growing up in a very diverse home was a struggle to begin with. I have other siblings. I moved all over Washington State and Oregon for probably the course of nine, nine and a half years. Within that time, I ended up here in Portland with a family member at the age of 14. Within six months, because...
 of all the abuse and trauma, and there was no services at that time to reach out to kids that were victims of child abuse and those kinds of traumas. So I was...
 I was left to the streets, so to speak. Within six months of being here in Portland with a cousin, I was forced into the lifestyle of prostitution, which is a huge thing that's going on. I know that the city of Portland is doing a lot on behalf of child trafficking. But from that, I ended up as a 17-year-old mother.
 And then by the time my daughter was two years old, that lifestyle really had its grip on me. And during a transaction on the street, it ended in somebody losing their life and me going away to prison for 16 and a half years at the age of 19.
 You can imagine the devastation. You can imagine a 19-year-old kid. I barely had my GED. I didn't think I was very smart. I had no self-esteem, no self-worth. And when I went to prison, I thought my life was over. The custody of my child went to the state of Oregon, where she ended up going through 27 foster homes. Okay.
 So while I was incarcerated, I decided that I was going to do whatever it took for when I got out to have a life. I knew I was going to be 35 years old, but I knew that I wanted a life, and I knew that life wasn't going to come easy. I knew that schooling was probably going to be hard. It was going to come at a cost, a cost that I had no idea how I was going to be able to ever pay it back, entering that field at the age of 35.
 So some programs come into the facility. I'm also part Cherokee Indian, so I started attending Native Services where our volunteer, Tricia Jordan, through Red Lodge, brought in the Oregon Tradeswomen, which you guys have heard of. And what's really awesome is they have a great career fair coming up this weekend, which is pretty cool. And when she brought them in, I suddenly realized, wait a minute, there's a program out there, and they're looking at me, and they say that I can do it.
 Well, beyond that, what else is it going to take? I had no idea how to live a normal, healthy life. And when you do 16 1⁄2 years within the prison walls, they have programs set up to bring you on what they call a field trip into the community for a day to start maybe seeing where you're going to be housed or what kind of programs or services might be there for you. I had no idea of any services.
 Southeast Work Source Center, which is also another program that is very vital to the community of Portland. I visited them on this day trip, and I honestly thought that all they were was a temporary connecting just for temporary day jobs. That's what I thought they were. Well, that changed very quickly when I went in there and I met with Cindy Pollard, who was just very genuinely compassionate and supportive.
 just really wanting to figure out what it was going to take to help me move forward and she knew I had talked to her about the Oregon tradeswomen and she said okay that's one step but how are we going to get there before that what are the steps that are going to take and you talk about wraparound services and there's a saying where it says that it takes a village to raise a child well it also takes a village to raise a person that comes from destruction and comes from a place
 of incarceration for such a long period of time, who really wants to strive and really wants a better life.
 And when I started meeting with Cindy once I paroled, I was housed downtown at the Estates. And I don't know if you're familiar with that, but that's right in the heart of homelessness. A lot of drug use, a lot of prostitution, a lot of pimps are down there. I mean, it's just like a really horrible atmosphere. And so that was a huge stress when you're getting out of prison after such a long time. And how are you going to find stable work? And how are you going to be able to do that with a clear mind when your housing is so cramped?
 It's a chaos. It's a destruction. Well, through Southeast Workforce Center and through the Oregon Tradeswomen, they also connected me with Human Solutions, who is also up on the board, who they helped me get into housing and get my first apartment ever at the age of 35, which is really crazy but very cool.
 But these programs and what Cindy does and the connections that she makes, like, I remember one day I went down there and I had no money. I was waiting to get a call back from a flagging company, and I thought,
 There was no hope. There was nothing. And I broke down in her office. I didn't even have an appointment. I just showed up because I was so stressed out. And she said, let's make a phone call. Let's make a phone call. And sure enough, this company had forgotten to call me back. And I started working right away within a few days. And that company, and with the help of Cindy, they navigated and helped me.
 I'd be able to work and make wages to where I could complete the Oregon Tradeswomen program, which is eight weeks long. And then from there, the Oregon Tradeswomen helped me get in. They have direct entry into apprenticeship programs if you complete their program. And I got a direct entry into Northwest Local 29 ironworkers. So I'm a very proud worker.
 Proud to sit here and say that I'm a female iron worker, and I'm out there doing what guys say that we can't do. And beyond that, I'm sitting here before you with housing, with a vehicle, with a job, with support services and people that I can go back to at any time.
 coming from a place of incarceration, but merely, I think it's about eight and a half months ago I was released. And it wouldn't have happened if it wasn't for the funding that goes into these programs. It's not just...
 only one program or only one other program. These people are like the umbrella and has all these, like, antennas out there that reach out and figure out what it is going to take to help somebody like myself succeed and become a contributing member of society. Like, when I filed my taxes...
 I was so excited that I didn't get any money back because I was paying my taxes. I mean, that's a good feeling for somebody like myself. So I just thank you for your time, and I just really hope that
 what I've said to you here today, that you really reflect on it and really understand the importance of that money going into a program like this. So thank you. Thank you. We appreciate that. Thank you. That really does remind us why we work so hard and why this is such an important program to fund. Could you tell me your name, please? Oh, I'm sorry. My name is Crystal Magania. Crystal, I think you should be very proud, and I'm very happy that this program has helped you.
 I look forward to future updates as well as you continue to in your career. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Okay, I want to start off with that I'm happy to be here. So my name is Anna Felix, and I'm 25 years old. I was born in Guatemala and raised in Portland, Oregon. So I came to the U.S. when I was one years old. My parents lost many family in the Civil War, which was in 1992.
 And so that's why they came here to the United States, to escape and came to the US for safety. So I have never been back to Guatemala, so I don't know how it looks. I've never been there before. And I would someday love to go back and visit and be there. But I am happy that I was raised here in Portland. Portland is my home. I would never want to leave Portland. So I graduated from PYC, Rosemary Anderson High School.
 in 2013. So POIC is different from my former high schools because the teachers, the career coaches, even the principal made sure that every student was doing well in classes and attending class every day. And I remember when one of my career coaches, he came to my house and was yelling from outside telling me to get to school.
 And that showed me how much they care about my education and my future. And I am grateful for that as well. So in 2011, I was a new mom to a little boy. And PYC helped me with parenting skills and the importance of how to care for kids. They were also able to provide clothing, toys, and books for the child. And also...
 This past fall, PYC helped me get involved in a healthcare bridge program and supported me with an internship at Providence. I'm currently still attending PCC right now at Cascade. So thanks to PYC career coaches for helping me get back into school and supporting me and helping me with homework and standing by my side. So and I am working or I am going to school for surgical technician and
 The reason I was, I want to be a surgical technician because I was inspired by surgical tech. What kind of technician? Surgical tech. Oh, surgical. Surgical tech, yes. And I was inspired by a surgical technician that I met during my internship at Providence. And she was the sweetest person ever. And so, yeah, she gave me advice.
 on the career, she helped me and she loves it and it's the perfect fit for her, so which inspired me greatly. So yes, I looked into the surgical technician to see if I like it and I did and this is what I want to do and I know I want it. And I want to end it with, without POIC I want to be here today giving a speech because they help me so much with everything, with scholarships
 making sure I'm doing good, keeping in touch with me. And, yeah, they've been there for me. They've been helping me. No matter who you are, why you are, they want to help you. It doesn't matter where you come from. Excellent. Thank you very much. We sure appreciate you being here today. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Janae De La Rosa.
 And I'm actively involved in the Human Solutions and WorkSource program. I'm sorry, could you move the mic just a little closer? Thank you. That's perfect. I'm actively involved with Human Solutions and WorkSource, the Pathways to Success program. I was at a very unstable place in my life. I had very unstable housing, and I had a very poor-paying job.
 and did not know where I was going to go or I thought I was going to end up homeless. That's really where I was on the verge of that. And I got involved with the program and they provided for me training as a CNA to start. I've completed all of my training through them. They've also helped me get into my own apartment
 Um, I've already got a, I started in October, um, and I've already, um, got a better paying job and I take my boards this week. Actually, um, I'm very excited. Um, I have a lot of support through them, uh, and my life has changed dramatically. Uh,
 becoming self-sufficient and looking to become an LPN. I'll start tutoring with that. They provide the academic navigator for my placement out at Mount Hood. And I just can't really say enough. I mean, I really was, without their programs and without their funding and without their help, I would have been another statistic, you know.
 But they really have inspired me and given me the motivation that I know I'll succeed. And within 24 months, I'll be a very happy nurse working in hospice. And I know I'll do it. And so I just wanted to come and let you know that their programs are working. And...
 to keep funding them. Thank you, and congratulations to you. That's great. Thank you. That's great, all three of you. Thank you, we really appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Mohamed Mouhiboula. I work at now Barricada Packaging Company. My position is public operator. So I came last year from Pakistan
 I'm a farmer from Portland. So last year when I arrived here, I was looking for a job and training. I had 10 years of proclivity experience. So Elko helped me to find a good job. Now I have a better job that pays well. I use my skill in my work and I feel good about my children's future.
 So Lisa and Surya gave me information of different jobs and also helped with interview scale and saving money, workloads and time management. So they helped me with resume interview training, career coaching, job application and also with travel license. So they helped me with
 and also saving money for future. So they also help a lot of time with my, sometimes I have problems, so they help also my personal trouble. So I want city to keep healthy EOP program so that people like me who are new to come, new to America,
 can give good job and support. It also helps us to be financially stable. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate your being here. Good afternoon. My name is Igor Procenko. Welcome. Excuse me for my English. I live in
 Portland in the United States 11 months. Welcome. I have big family. I have eight children and eight grandchildren. Yeah. We came to the United States 11 months ago from Ukraine as refugees. I did not have any English skills there.
 I started looking for a job but could not find anything. I have many years of experience in construction. Impact Northwest recommended pathways to success program at Human Solutions. Right after I was enrolled,
 In November of 2016, I received help with my resume writing and interview skills. I was referred to a paid work experience program with the goal to work as a maintenance.
 The specialist from Human Solutions was in contact with my supervisor to ensure I stay with the employer after my paid work experience is over. I was also referred to EOP rental assistance program and received some help with my rent.
 I was hired as a full-time payment maintenance in March of 2017. I am very happy what I'm doing. I make decent money and can feed my big family. Please always fund program like this.
 Thank you for your attention. Thank you. Appreciate it. I have to say that your English is very good after 11 months. Good afternoon. My name is Fatmata. I'm from Africa, West Africa, Sierra Leone to be precise. When we came to America, we were living in Philadelphia. But we moved to Portland with my husband almost two years ago.
 but we are finding it difficult for looking for a job, finding ways and means for going to school with all our age. Because like back in Africa, you have your family, you're no more going to school. But this is the country that they give opportunity to every life, no matter your age, either your color. So when we came to Portland, we met with ACO, the organization, and they really helped us a lot with my husband.
 They found my husband to go to school to do his CNA and they found me to do my CNA too. And they are going out looking for other ways and means to help us in our English learning and even our computer skills. So we really appreciate this program and we are pleading for you to continue supporting us, supporting other people who are in need of help.
 And right now, we just brought our children, and they opened their doors, their hands to help them too. So we really appreciate whatever they are doing for us, and the support you guys are giving to them. So I want to thank you for everything. Thank you so much for being here. We appreciate your testimony. Yeah. Very good. And, Andrew, I just want to do a time check. How many more people do we have presenting? Maybe on the –
 That's it? We're done. All right. Do you want to do a quick wrap-up here? Sure. Thank you. And I appreciate all the people that came out today. I think they provided, you know, what else can you say? I just want to thank you all for your testimony today. Thank you very much for being here. Appreciate it. Sorry. Yeah, it's just the stories are extraordinary, and I think the success is evident. And I, you know...
 It's complicated to put this stuff together.
 But it's worth it in the end, and I think we've really laid the groundwork that you all can be proud of, and we're really eager to continue to build on this and happy to support whatever other initiatives you'd like to see us engage in. So thank you very much for your time today. Commissioner Fritz? I'm just so happy with this presentation and how your organization and the city is partnering with so many other community organizations today.
 I remember in one of the early years of Mayor Sam Adams' tenure, you and I were on a frantic phone call late at night and wondering if Commissioner Loretta Smith was going to be able to help. And it felt like we were cobbling together things during the recession, and yet now we've got this wonderful program with so many partners.
 you know just it does my heart good to know what you're doing and that this is such a firm foundation that you've developed the partnerships with so many others and not only Mayor Adams but also Mayor Hales and Patrick Quinton before Kimberley Branham and now Mayor Wheeler we all know what we're doing we know why we're doing it I just wish more people had been here this afternoon because
 That's what I came to America for, was to have those opportunities. And I really appreciate you doing this presentation. If I could just, Mayor, two quick comments. I know it's been a very, very long day, and I want to thank everyone for their patience. These economic opportunity programs used to be in the Housing Bureau. And when we took the housing money out of PDC and created a new Portland Housing Bureau,
 It was at that time that then-Mayor Adams made the decision to put the programs in PDC and try to harness the power of the economic development side of the ledger. And I had the same misgivings about doing that that I later had when we proposed taking some of the homeless services out of the Housing Bureau and migrating them to the county. And it wasn't because I was...
 reluctant to consider ways of better aligning or streamlining or delivering services. It's that I thought the values proposition of these two things were crucial to the Housing Bureau's sort of mission, and I didn't want to lose the sort of soul of
 And it turns out I think both decisions were the right ones. And what the economic opportunities initiative needed was a clear strategic focus so it wasn't just opportunistic, and it needed to be aligned with other programs, and we need to be more rigorous about outcomes.
 And that's what you've demonstrated. And I would just end on a political note, since today we learned that the Justice Department has appointed a special prosecutor to investigate the president. I would say that the cloud on the horizon is how we fund these programs.
 And we are somewhat out of step with other cities because community development block grants, as we know, are very flexible dollars, can be used for lots of kinds of things. They can be used for economic development. They can be used for community building. They can be used for many things, which is why they are prize dollars. The President's proposed budget cuts the heart out of the CDBG program.
 And so the next time someone says to you, what does community development block grant mean to our community, tell them about this hearing. Tell them about creating opportunity for people. Tell them about building structures and clinics and investing in things, because that's what it means. So it would not be my first choice of where we cut at the federal level. So thank you for an outstanding presentation.
 Great. I'll add my chorus to this. Thank you again for your patience. I know we made you wait about an hour longer than you had expected. But you got to see that scintillating budget hearing. It was awesome.
 So, at any rate, thank you. This is an exciting, exciting set of programs. And, again, the partnership is the key point for me. So, again, let's keep it going. Let's keep building it. Let's keep innovating and thinking of ways that we can strengthen it even more for the future. Thank you. If there is nothing more for the good of the order, we are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. I think that was all.