Good morning, everyone. This is National Hospital Week, the nation's largest single healthcare event. It's a celebration of the hope and the healing that's provided every day of the year by our healthcare professionals who support the well-being of their communities through dedication and true care from their hearts.
 Given that we're all experiencing this year, what we're all experiencing this year, a global pandemic that's having a profound effect on all of us in so many different ways. Hospital Week and all that it represents is more poignant than ever. I'm proud of how our community has been coming together each evening at 7 p.m. to honor, recognize, and thank our frontline workers in this crisis with cheers and by making some noise.
 This special week now offers us at the City of Portland the opportunity to put our thanks, our praise, and write-up in the form of an official proclamation. All week long, the Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems is highlighting the fantastic work of Oregon hospitals, and we'd like to honor and recognize the sacrifice and the work that's been done in our Portland area hospitals.
 Because as you all know, hospitals are not just buildings. They're the health care workers inside of those buildings. We see their hard work. We see the risks that they're facing. And we see the time that they're sacrificing with their family and friends to care for all of us.
 And so with that, I'd like to turn this over to Becky Holper. She is the president of the Oregon Hospitals Association. Becky, thank you for joining us this morning. We really appreciate it. It's good to see you.
 Thank you. Good to see you, Mayor, and thank you for giving me a chance to say just a few very brief words. National Hospital Week is typically a pretty big deal for our field. It's a time to recognize our community hospitals, health systems, and health care workers, and to honor our shared dedication to improving the lives of those we serve.
 This year Hospital Week, as you noted, has taken on an added significance. COVID-19 has changed so much about all of our lives, how we work, go to school, how we socialize, even how we eat. But one thing that has not changed is this, our community hospitals are there for you when you need them, no matter the time of day, no matter your ability to pay, hospitals will be there to provide compassionate care.
 COVID-19 is an insidious disease. It is easily transmittable. It spreads even when there are no signs of its presence, and it kills. There have been more than 3,300 cases of COVID-19 in Oregon. At least 130 people have died. More than half of the total cases and half of the total deaths have been here in the Portland metro area.
 Frontline caregivers in hospitals and health systems across the state have heroically responded to this pandemic and have shown tremendous dedication to keep Oregonians safe and healthy. I want to thank them all today.
 I also want to thank Mayor Wheeler for his strong leadership and clear-minded approach to addressing this crisis. Mayor, your actions to promote strong social distancing guidelines help to bend the curve, preserve vital hospital capacity, and save lives.
 We know this pandemic is not over, and as we continue to fight COVID-19, hospitals will need this council, public health agencies, the state legislature, the governor, and Congress to partner with us.
 We're all in this together, and together we can overcome COVID-19. So with that, thank you for this proclamation. Thank you, Mayor, for your early action on social distancing, and thank you for giving me the chance to say a few words. Thank you, Becky. We sure appreciate your being here, and it's fortuitous that we're celebrating COVID.
 or the Portland Hospital Week today, but really we should be thankful not just for the work that everybody does in the hospitals during the pandemic. We should be grateful for the good work you do year-round under ordinary circumstances. So thank you for that. Colleagues, before I read the proclamation, does anybody have anything they'd like to add? I see Commissioner Hardesty has her hand raised.
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Becky. Becky, I just wanted to add my admiration and appreciation to hospitals all across the state of Oregon for really being mindful of
 and thoughtful on addressing the COVID-19. As Mayor Wheeler said, it's not just about COVID-19, it's each and every time we need a hospital, hospitals doors tend to be open. And we are grateful for the community partnership that we have. So thank you and happy hospital week. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler.
 Of course, I have opened up my wrong document. Here we go. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Becky Holtberg, and the Hospital Association. Recognizing hospitals for the work you do to keep all of us healthy is more critical than ever. I want to thank every hospital health care worker in Portland and across our country. Your efforts are essential and so appreciated.
 My family has benefited from many dedicated and compassionate health care workers who've supported us at Dornberger Children's Hospital and Randall Children's Hospital over the past 19 years, providing not just life-saving care to my son, but comfort to my family in some of our most difficult hours. You and your families are in my thoughts as we face this ongoing public health crisis.
 Every hospital healthcare worker, from nurses to administrators to maintenance staff, are putting themselves at greater risk every day to deliver care to COVID-19 patients. They're isolating themselves from their loved ones to treat our loved ones, and they all deserve our gratitude for this work.
 I want to encourage every Portlander to thank the healthcare workers in their lives during this week of recognition. In my neighborhood at 7 o'clock every night, we hear that appreciation, drums and bells. We heard it last night at our budget listening session, actually, which was a sweet moment.
 Whether with words, cards, meals, or showing your support for their work by donating blood if you're able. And of course, by staying home and taking every recommended precaution to keep healthcare workers safe in our hospitals at a manageable capacity. So thank you again to all of you. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thanks, Mayor, and thank you, Becky, for being here. Last week was National Nurses Week and State Representative Rob Nose was kind enough to remember that I used to be a nurse and sent me greetings about that. So I've been thinking about you all a lot, obviously with the crisis.
 Knowing from having worked in hospitals for 27 years that every day, not just during a crisis, that people go to work courageously, knowing that they are going to be dealing with people who are ill, who may be combative, who might make them sick or hurt. And yet they do it every single day. And so I'm very, very grateful for that.
 I also need to thank the folks at Portland Adventist Hospital for saving my life in January. And I'm sure each one of us could thank somebody in a hospital for the great work that you do. And Mayor Wheeler, I very much appreciate you bringing this pre-GAVL proclamation because we don't have enough opportunities to say thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Well said. And now it's my pleasure on behalf of the Portland City Council and by extension all of us here in the City of Portland who are grateful to your work to read a proclamation. Whereas public health is critical to sustaining and improving the state, and whereas a hallmark of Oregon's public health network is the extensive collaboration amongst its hospitals and health systems,
 And whereas frontline caregivers and hospitals and health systems throughout the state rapidly responded to the COVID-19 global pandemic and have shown great resilience in the face of an emerging public health threat while working tirelessly and selflessly to keep Oregonians safe and healthy. And whereas Oregon Hospital Week celebrates those who improve the health of their communities through compassionate patient care,
 And whereas, Oregon's hospitals provided more than $1.5 billion in community benefits to the state in 2018. And whereas, Oregon's 62 hospitals supported nearly 138,000 jobs, generating nearly $20.9 billion in total economic output in 2017.
 And whereas, Oregon's hospitals are a top employer in many of Oregon's communities. And whereas, Oregon's hospitals are dedicated to providing quality care, education, and leadership to their residents and visitors. And whereas, National Hospital Week is an opportunity to thank all of the dedicated individuals within our hospitals and health systems for their outstanding contributions.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 10th through 16th, 2020, to be Portland Hospital Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you, Becky, on behalf of all of your affiliates. Thank you for the great work you do, and thank you for being with us this morning. Thank you.
 Colleagues, we are now in session. This is the Wednesday, May 13th, 2020 session of Portland City Council. Good morning. Carla, please call the roll. Good morning, Mayor. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here.
 Here, under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by phone, and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The public can also provide written testimony to Council by emailing the Council Clerk. The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your continued patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business. We will now hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Thank you, Mayor.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda at PortlandOregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the council is holding electronic meetings.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Finally, please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thank you.
 Thank you, Robert. Appreciate that very much. First up, Carla's communications item 352. Request of Lovila Morello to address council regarding Zeman. I'm sorry, she is not speaking. All right, very good. 353, the next individual, please. Request of Hung Yau to address council regarding city's response to the economic crisis from COVID-19.
 Hi, can you hear me? Yes, loud and clear. Welcome. Thanks. Hi, I'm Hyung Nam. I served on the Police Budget Advisory Committee this past year, and I want to just add a few comments in addition to my comments at the budget hearing yesterday. Okay.
 I believe that, especially the police back that I was part of, but also the entire budget process is in violation of local budget law, Chapter 294 of the Oregon Revised Statutes Act.
 My experience specifically, well in general, I think this process this year is being rushed with only one public hearing before city council approves a budget. But also in terms of participating in the back, I was actually the only member of the back that attended every single meeting last year. And then at the end, before we actually saw the document,
 for the Police Bureau budget request, we were pressured with one day's notice to meet as the back committee and write our back report. And that schedule didn't work, and I also expressed that I wasn't comfortable doing that without seeing the details of the budget request.
 And basically, it seemed like we were being pressured to rubber stamp this report. And since then, actually seeing the report, I'm really surprised by many things in it. First of all, one of the things I pointed out when I was on the committee was that they changed the categorizations of the program offers. So, for example, if you look on pages 13 and 14 of the police budget request report,
 It's like comparing apples and oranges. You have totally different categories from last year and this year's and there's no way you could compare how the budgets are changing. In addition, I noticed one thing that I would have never seen and I'm sure the other back members didn't see when they wrote their report because this entire request did not exist then, is that the
 The section on the, I forget, it's a tactical team. Basically, it's calling for seven additional FTE for SWAT, the Special Emergency Reaction Team. And I have no idea why that's being called for.
 But anyway, I just want to point out that the website for not only this back, but the other backs were not updated. In fact, there were vacancies on many backs that were not published. Minutes were not published as well. And this whole process has not been accountable and transparent.
 And, and finally, I just want to say that, you know, with so much of the general funds going to police in this time of crisis, that's probably going to last for a couple years at least. I think we really need to look at some serious cuts to the police budget. So in addition to not adding those seven additional FTE to the SWAT team, we should cut the
 the rebranded gang enforcement task force or team. That's the gun violence reduction team. We should also cut transit police and cut PS3 personnel. This crisis gives us a chance to carefully review our priorities and values. Making these changes would help the city save money and provide more services in these difficult times and we'll be much more in line with the values and mission of the city. It's austerity,
 undermines public safety. And as I said in my testimony yesterday, thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly, you have your hand raised. I think Commissioner Udaly and Fritz's hands were still raised from the last one, but I just put mine back up. Got it. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Yang, for your testimony. I just had a question about how long you've served on the back for Portland Police Bureau.
 Since the first meeting in September until the last meeting, I forget if that was in the last regular meeting, was either December or January. And then there was an additional special meeting for writing the back report. And that's the only meeting I missed.
 But most of the other meetings, I can't remember. I mean, you can't even see it because minutes are not even published for every meeting. But for many of the meetings, the other back members didn't show up. There were vacancies on the back that were never filled. I was the only member of the back that showed up to every meeting.
 I want to thank you for your service to the city of Portland and ask you to feel free to reach out to my office. I don't know if your testimony is written, but I would, and if you got through it all, but I would certainly like to have you follow up with my office on your experience. And let me just say that I think this budget season is extremely unique. And there are some things that are happening at a glazier speed that
 that all of us would be in opposition to under normal circumstances. And so I think some of it is us adjusting to this new current reality, but some of what you're saying to me are systems challenges
 that not just for the police bill's budget advisory committee, but many other advisory committees. And we can do a better job of actually onboarding people on all of those committees, as well as supporting them so that they feel like they are investing their time wisely. So thank you again for your service. And I look forward to continuing the conversation. Thank you. Next individual, item 354, please, Carla. Okay.
 Request of John Murphy to address council regarding resetting budget process to include alternative revenue streams year approach morning, good morning, I First off I want to say I completely agree with the sentiments towards the hospitals and the nurses people that are helping us lose virus I appreciate your time and effort to make that statement. I
 My name is John Murphy. I'm a member of the Portland Metro People's Coalition, which is a coalition of 20 organizations working to build a socially and economically egalitarian society. Recently, like Hyung Nam, I have been privileged to participate in the Office of Management and Finance meetings as a representative of the PMPC. It's been a great opportunity to participate in the local government process.
 And it's about this type of participation and decision making that affects our community's future that I want to talk about this morning. We are in the midst of the budget process, and I want us to keep in mind the words of President Kennedy, who wrote these words 67 years ago. Poverty in the midst of plenty should not go unchallenged. Wealth and power concentrate in the hands of the few, as many struggle to survive while their lives are...
 are living below minimum levels of health, housing, food, and education. Much has changed across the nation in the decades that have passed since JFK wrote those words, but sadly, the gap between the haves and the have-nots has only widened. Now is the time to act to correct those inadequacies. With this budget crisis, a perfect storm is starting to straighten the collective face. The release of the city budget while struggling to recover from the economic calamity of coronavirus.
 We have tough choices to make as a community. Repeat the patterns of the past or steer a new course that reflects the progressive, innovative spirit of Portland. Community-based groups like the Portland Metro Pupils Coalition will not support repeating mistakes of the past. Our 20-plus coalition partners demand a reimagining of the possibilities and building new roads to a better Portland.
 Recent past austerity budgets in Portland resulted in drastic cuts for many social services for the working class, with promises of more cuts to come. Even in booming economic times, the City of Portland has prioritized budget cuts to vital city services and programs. Shockingly, national leaders have actually proposed the idea of letting states and cities go bankrupt to shed debt and bad decisions of the past.
 This horrific suggestion is a standout example of the old world resolution to new world challenges. We will not stand for these short-sighted, cruel, and unjust solutions. We need a Portland vision for the New Deal, like the New Deal, to emerge from these times stronger and more just for all of Portland's residents.
 This crisis presents a once-in-a-lifetime generation opportunity to come together as a community, to reimagine how old policies can be restructured and innovative fixes implemented that will help bring in an era of social and economic justice. Recent huge victories for the Portland Clean Energy Fund and Honest Elections
 in the city and county have provided momentum for us to build on. We can use this opportunity to transform our annual budget cycle into a multi-year budget plan, employing new progressive tax stretchers to fund initiatives that will provide what we desire for our society. Time is up. Pardon me? Your time is up. Oh, thank you. Thank you for your time and attention. Thank you, Mr. Murphy. We appreciate your participation this morning and sharing your thoughts.
 The next individual, Carla, item number 355, please. Request of Diana Goodman to address council regarding being green performance.
 Good morning. Good morning. Hi, Mr. Mayor. Hello, Council. Can you hear us and see us all right? Loud and clear, Diana. You're good to go. All right, cool. Hello. Thank you so much for having us. My name is Diana Gutmann, and this is my husband. And I would like to first take a moment to acknowledge and honor the host people of these lands, the Tlalapcani, the Kalalapuya, the Chinook, and the Clackamas.
 Today my husband and I will be performing Be in Green, famously sung by Kermit the Frog, as a way to say thank you to all of our healthcare workers who are providing to our community, to everyone who is feeling the impact of the COVID-19. And I just want to encourage everyone today that times are difficult but we are going to get through this. We're not in this alone, we're in this together.
 I'm sorry. I was going to say, it sounded like you had a soundtrack, but it was on purpose. No, it's my husband. Can you not see us? We can't see you. No, you should enable your video. How do I do that? I'm so sorry. I've never done this before. If you go down to the left-hand corner of your computer and just... I'm on my cell phone.
 Okay, we need somebody more technically advanced than I to help with that one. So sorry. Diana, we can hear you, though. Go ahead and play the song. We'll listen. Okay, all right. It's not that easy being free. Having to spend each day the color of the leaves.
 And when I think it could be nicer being red or yellow or gold Or something much more colorful like that It's not that easy being green Seems you tend to blend in with so many other ordinary things
 And people pass you over Cause you're not standing out like flashy sparkles in the water Or stars in the sky But green is the cover-up And green can be cool and we love And green can be big like an ocean Or important like a mountain Or tall like a tree
 If green is all there is to be, it can make you wonder why. Why wonder, why wonder, I'm green. And that'll do fine. In fact, I think it's beautiful. And it's what I'd like to be. Bravo. That was beautiful.
 What a great way to start the day. Thank you both. That was beautiful. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Council. And thank you to all of our healthcare workers. What you do is very important to our community and we wouldn't be able to get through this crisis without you. So thank you very much. Thank you very much. Carla, next up is the consent agenda. I'd like to refer item 358 back to my office.
 It's my understanding item 360 has also been pulled by Mr. Handelman, is that correct? That's correct, Mayor. Have any other items been pulled off the consent agenda? We've had no other requests. Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? The consent agenda is adopted. Colleagues, just a bit of housekeeping before we move into the next portion of the budget. Okay.
 Carla, I would like to request that items 369, 370, and 371 from the regular agenda be moved to the Thursday afternoon agenda to be heard after the 2 p.m. time certain.
 This is being done having had what I believe are productive conversations with the leaders of the bargaining units that are referred to in these three particular ordinances. So if we could make that move, please. So Thursday afternoon agenda after the 2 p.m. time, sir. And may I, could I just interject here, please? I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz?
 I just wanted everybody to know that the two o'clock time certain is probably going to go at least a couple of hours. There are 47 people signed up to testify and there'll be a presentation before it. So people are just wondering how soon after two o'clock they should sign on for the other items you just moved. Just to be aware of that. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate that. The next item will be item number 356.
 Carla, if you could read 356, the time certain, and 945. Adopt the fiscal year 2019-20 spring supplemental budget and make other budget-related changes. Colleagues, before us, we have the spring supplemental budget, also known as the spring bump.
 We discussed my proposed spring bump at the work session last week. Due to the unprecedented emergency brought about by the COVID-19 virus, I issued guidance to delay the spring budget monitoring process or bump by several weeks and streamline the requirements to focus on some of the following adjustments. Technical true-ups, required compensation set-aside allocations to end the year on balance,
 program carryovers that either one assist in supporting current mayoral and council priority packages for fiscal year 2021 or two, ensuring the continuity of core services and operations through fiscal year 2021 or third and finally contribute to the city's fund to address urgent emergency response needs.
 I indicated that no new requests for general fund resources would be entertained except for requests for resources required to continue core existing operations through fiscal year 2019-2020.
 This morning, the budget director, Jessica Kennard, who's with us, obviously, will walk us through the current ordinance. We'll then hear amendments to the ordinance. After that, we will provide opportunity for public testimony before final deliberations and voting. I'll now turn this over to Director Kennard to review the spring bump ordinance. Good morning, Director Kennard.
 Good morning, thank you Mayor, good morning members of Council. For the record, Jessica Kennard, City Budget Director. I am once again going to pull up a brief presentation for the benefit of folks at home and just as a quick reminder of the spring supplemental budget process. I'm here with Jane Marie Ford, our Principal Analyst and Spring Bump and All Bumps Coordinator
 Today, we are going to be briefly going through the bump process. We're going to provide a brief overview of the mayor's proposed spring bump and then we're going to have a discussion on a met of amendments before voting. So as a reminder, the spring bump is the second out of three budget monitoring processes that we complete each year. The primary purpose is to provide year end financial projections, make current year budget adjustments and true up costs between years.
 That we typically entertain are truing up beginning fund balance based on the comprehensive annual financial report, interagency adjustments, program carryovers from one fiscal year to the next, compensation set-aside allocations, and the allocation of contingency resources, both in the general fund as well as non-general fund. And then, of course, other technical adjustments as well.
 As the mayor mentioned, this year he issued some new guidance in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis
 And this included a request for new requests for general fund only to include those that are required to address continuity of operations in the current year. And carryover requests should be limited to those things that the mayor mentioned should assist in supporting current mayor and council priority packages, ensure the continuity of core services, or contribute to the city's fund to address urgent needs. Okay.
 As the mayor mentioned, last week during the work session, we walked through line by line what was in the changes to the general fund. At a high level, the compensation set-aside requests that are included in the mayor's proposed bump includes $8.3 million in compensation set-aside, and this funds all of the requests for compensation set-aside from police, fire, parks, and the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 New general fund requests that are included in the mayor's proposed bump total $1.4 million. It primarily funds the park's revenue gap associated with the COVID-19 closures of the recreational facilities. In terms of program carryover, the requests that are included total $5.9 million. These are 14 requests in eight bureaus. And then finally, there are a handful of returns to the general fund included, totaling $3.7 million.
 All told, with the Mayor's proposed spring bump, general fund contingency would stand at $30.4 million. This retains just over $2 million in unrestricted contingency for any unanticipated current year needs, $5.9 million in program carryover for continued services that will be budgeted as part of next year's budget process and voted on as part of the approved budget next week,
 And then there's $22.4 million in policy set-aside for 2021. The majority of those resources are going towards funding our funding gap. So a small handful of those things are actually still in policy set-aside for specific things for next year, including Portland Street Response, overhead true-up costs, and a couple of other small items. But the majority of those funds, again, are funds that we are taking to help fund our $75 million funding gap.
 So now I would like to turn it over to see if there, well first if there's any questions about the items that are included in the mayor's proposed bump as filed and then if there are no questions we can turn it over for a discussion of amendments. Colleagues any questions thus far? I'm not seeing anything. Director Kennard go ahead.
 So our office is aware of a small handful of amendments. I believe, Mayor, you have a couple of amendments that you are considering offering, and I believe Commissioner Hardesty might have amendment that she would like to offer. Would you, I have a list of things that I have heard about. I am happy to walk through those, or I can turn it over, Mayor, to you to offer the amendments that you have. I can go ahead and offer it up, and you can provide commentary as necessary. So what we'll do right now, colleagues, is we'll hear
 And if appropriate, second amendments. I have a list of amendments, as Jessica just mentioned. They've been gathered by the city budget office. I'll read them first, then I'll open the floor to any additional amendments that any of my colleagues may have.
 We will read each proposed amendment, and then we'll seek a second in turn. And then after the amendments have been placed on the table for discussion, we'll, of course, open it up to public testimony. So I have four that I would like to enter potentially for the record, assuming there are seconds to be had. The first is a motion to make the following adjustments to the supplementary.
 Mental budget is proposed. I will read the language and then I'll give a slightly lengthy but important descriptor. The official language is decrease the Bureau program expenses and special appropriations general fund for the Office of Youth Violence Prevention by $231,000 to be carried over in the fiscal year 2021 for significant vital operations.
 This includes $77,000 for the Healing Hurt People program, $77,000 for the Gang Impacted Family Coordinator, and $77,000 for other programming. That includes We Are the Caution campaign, ceasefire implementation, the Restoration Academy, and funding to culturally specific organizations.
 update exhibits one through five as needed to reflect this change. And if you'll bear with me just for a moment, since I know this is an important issue, I'd like to dig just a little deeper on this particular amendment.
 In Portland- Could I second it? Let me second it while you speak and put it on the table for discussion. So that the formal language has been put on the table, Commissioner Fritz is seconded, it's on the table. Here's a slightly more detailed narrative. In Portland gun violence, gun related violence to date in 2020 has significantly increased over the number of incidents reported in 2019. An upwards trend being experienced by
 by other United States cities as well. This is exactly why OIVP is requesting the ability to utilize existing, unexpended grant funding to expand service to persons at the highest risk of victimization due to gun-related violence. The cause for unexpected funding was created due to vacancies that have been difficult to fill.
 The resources and help that they need keep growing. For example, here are the needs. A position for their program, which is titled Healing Hurt People. This person works with trauma one hospital shooting victims and their families to reduce gun violence during the four hour window of retaliation.
 The Healing Hurt People position, which serves shooting victims in the ER, is not currently funded. However, the NGO who carries the MOU, the Memorandum of Understanding for the HHEP program, has allowed the employee to assume the HPP role as a volunteer, and moving forward without any funding, they will not be able to continue to allow this function to exist.
 Unfortunately, based on the number of shootings, which is 188, the need for services within different trauma-worn hospitals, we can no longer afford this program to function as a purely volunteer program. This funding will support the Healing Hurt People Program, HHPP, through the amending of the Gang-Impacted Family Team Coordinator Grant Program contract.
 Please note that the HHPP is currently receiving only in-kind support and has no direct funding.
 There's also a need to keep critical programs going. Amongst them, we are a precaution campaign, which is community-based, the ceasefire implementation, the restoration academy, and current contractual obligations with NGOs to make sure that OIVP can successfully implement gun reduction strategies, complete the necessary community outreach, and fulfill the various contractual obligations we have with our culturally specific NGOs.
 I would encourage my colleagues to strongly consider support of OIVP and the hard work they're doing to help families impacted by gun violence. The next, and that has been seconded so it's on the table, the next is a motion to make the following adjustments to the supplemental budget as proposed.
 This would decrease Bureau, this is the formal language, decrease Bureau program expenses and increase Interfund cash transfers in the Bureau of Emergency Communications, Emergency Communications Fund by $133,244.
 These resources will be transferred to general fund policy set aside for the Portland Street Response and Nurse Triage Program in fiscal year 2021. This would update exhibits one through five as needed to reflect this change. And just very briefly, as you'll recall,
 Do you like a second, Mayor? Yes, please. Second. So the motion has been seconded by Commissioner Hardesty. It's on the table. You'll recall last year,
 We allocated $500,000 to the Street Response Fund. That $500,000 has not yet been expended for the pilot. It's been carried over through the proposed budget into fiscal year 2021. There was a discussion about adding the nurse triage component of this program. We are taking $133,000 in carryover from the Bureau of Emergency Control.
 communications for the street response program, specifically the nurse triage program. So this is carryover that would be proposed for this. It has been seconded. The third, a motion to make the following adjustments to the supplemental budget as proposed.
 Decrease Bureau expenses in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability General Fund by $146,000 and set aside funds in the General Fund Contingency for Program Carryover and Reallocation in the fiscal year 2021 budget for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Equity Program work. This updates Exhibit 1 through 5 as necessary to reflect this change.
 And again, this is based on the discussion we had in our recent work session. This would be carrying over underspending in the Bureau from the current fiscal year.
 This will allow us to make a critical hire and speed up the work. And there was broad interest in the work session to accelerate this work. The allocation of this carryover would allow us to do that. Do I have a second? Second. Seconds. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Last question.
 and not least a motion to make the following adjustments to the supplemental budget as proposed. Decrease the Bureau program expenses in the Portland Parks and Recreation General Fund by $83,000 and set aside funds in general fund contingency for program carryover and reallocation in the fiscal year 2021 budget for the purchase of new fleet vehicles. This would update exhibits 1 through 5.
 as necessary, as needed to reflect this change. This is basically a technical amendment. Director Kennard, is there anything else you want to add? Second. We have a second. I guess you don't need to add it at this point. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. That completes my proposed amendments. I believe there are others who have proposed amendments. Sorry, I was looking for my raise hand thingy and couldn't find it. No, you can't find it.
 I have a, I'd like to make a motion to make the following adjustment to the supplemental budget as proposed. Decrease bureau program expenses in the Office of Community and Civic Life Recreation Cannabis Tax Fund by $548,094 for the 2020 Cannabis Social Equity Grants.
 Resources will be reallocated in the Prosper Portland Recreational Cannabis Tax Fund Budget in fiscal year 2021 for 2021 community grants. Update Exhibit 1 through 5 is needed to reflect this change. Is there a second? I'll second it for the purposes of discussion. Thank you, Mayor. Should I make the case for this amendment now? No.
 If you'd like, sure. The floor is yours. Thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you, colleagues.
 appreciate the hard work of the Office of Community and Civic Life and the community committee that came together to review grant applications. But I am operating in a different arena than we operated in post pandemic and what we are attempting to do today is to get as many resources into the hands of community members who are in desperate need of those resources.
 As I reviewed some of the potential recipients of this particular grant, I asked myself, is this better in an organization's hands or is it better in the hands of people who need to buy food, who need to try to keep their businesses open, who need to try to take care of their families? And so this is not meant to be.
 to disregard the fine work of the committee. But quite frankly, these dollars need to be out of the door now. And I know that Prosper has a process to be able to get these dollars out as quickly as possible. So I'm done. Questions? Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Daly? I don't believe you can make this amendment because it affects 19-20 funds and it's
 can't be part of the spring bump conversation. So if I could get someone's opinion on that, that'd be great. Director Kinard? Yeah, sure. So this is, the spring bump is making amendments to the current year to 19-20 allocation. So it is possible to make that change. I understand that there is another item, I believe, on Council's agenda today related to these funds.
 that is probably more the issue is the relationship with the other item that's being heard by council later today. I'm sorry, you lost me on that. That was a little bit, it was too cryptic for my brain. Can you be a little more
 So I believe that there is an item in front of council today that allocates the grants from Civic Life, these cannabis fund grants to community members. And so this would be amending this, if this action were taken by council right now, it would require that additionally that item not pass because the money would be allocated to Prosper instead. So just to be clear.
 We have made the decision about who to issue the social equity grants to. All of these organizations are doing vital work in the community. And while direct assistance is also important, so is the work that these dollars are funding. And I absolutely oppose completely derailing funding
 this process and reallocating these funds. Any further discussion on this item? Commissioner Hardesty, given the vehemence of the commissioner in charge, I'll tell you this makes me feel uneasy. I actually find myself in agreement that getting the funds out quickly is critically important right now, and I appreciate your sentiment in that regard.
 But it feels like there needs to be more discussion on this particular item from my point of view. I'm happy to withdraw this amendment, but I expect that we must have a real conversation about how we're utilizing cannabis funds before we approve any additional allocation of those funds. So I will pull it if I have that commitment from my colleagues that we're going to have an open, honest conversation about how we invest these dollars. Yes.
 just because we thought we were going to do something in January, we are living in a different world at the moment. And we have to be open to thinking differently and outside of the box that we're accustomed to thinking in. And so I am happy to withdraw my motion, but we need to make sure we have this conversation before we make any commitments about where those dollars go.
 Commissioner Fritz, I see you have your hand raised. Thanks, Matt. Yeah, well, we are going to have that conversation. We've got an item on the agenda today, and we're going to discuss it in the main budget next week. So I'm a little puzzled, but I appreciate you withdrawing the amendment. It's 3.73 this afternoon. That's a time certain at 3.30, right? 3.30. So yeah, good. And I know that the cannabis fund allocation
 a lot of really good conversation. We had our work session. Was that just yesterday? When was that? I think it may have been yesterday morning, yes. We will be having conversations, but the conversations that are scheduled to happen are,
 are after the fact. That is not the kind of conversation I want to have about immediate needs in our community and who should be making those decisions. And so all of us have budgets that we are trying to flex so that we can be supportive of community members.
 But this can be a pro forma activity. Yes, Commissioner Fritz, we will have the conversation, but we have to be clear about where we're headed. And I just feel that, you know, we keep being, I keep being told, oh, but we've already made these decisions about how these funds go. We are in a different world. And if we're not going to acknowledge that we're in a different world, then this is an exercise in just...
 status quo funding. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner, for withdrawing the amendment. I want to assure you that these grants were evaluated in light of the COVID crisis, and I'm also perplexed by some of your comments because
 This grant program isn't even being funded next year. So yes, there are important conversations to be had, but it won't be about civic life, civic life grant program because it won't exist next year. Thank you, commissioner. You daily. Sorry. I'm struggling with the technology this morning. Good. Okay. So that has been withdrawn. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a second?
 amendment you wanted to propose or no? No, Mayor. I believe that was the only amendment that I should have moved forward. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Good conversation. Commissioner Daley has an amendment. Nope. Nope. Okay. Does that colleague's complete amendments or discussion on amendments before moving to public testimony?
 I see no hands raised. Of course, you can always raise issues later in this conversation. With that, we'll move to public testimony, Carla. Do we have people ready to go? No one signed up for this item, Mayor. All right, very good. Then before we vote on each of the amendments, is there any further discussion on said amendments?
 Hearing none, Carla, can you- Sorry, Mayor. I did have a couple of concerns about the Office of Youth Violence Prevention and these two particular programs. And so I hope we can talk a little bit about that particular amendment. My understanding from the city council presentation was there was one person who was grant-funded
 for the Healing Hope People program. The grant ran out, and now that person is a volunteer. I am very concerned that we are once again setting ourselves up for a grant-funded community activity. The grant money goes away. We're going to now fund it one time, and there's going to be an expectation that we continue to fund a program that, in my opinion, is desperately needed
 However, one person does not a program make. And so is there someone that could give us more information about why we would fund a program that was grant funded? And in fact, the anticipation will be that we will continue to fund this as an ongoing effort.
 I actually don't know enough about the Office of Youth Violence Prevention to know whether or not this is a good investment. I did have an opportunity to talk to Jamal. I think it wasn't last night. It was the night before. And so this is the first time.
 opportunity I've had to hear about both ceasefire which very much concerns me that ceasefire program has been a failure all across the country and so I am concerned that we are committing to programmatic activity that we've had no information on prior to so
 That's how I feel about that particular amendment. I'm not sure whether it's a good investment about limited resources based on what the council presentation was the last time we talked about healing hurt people. Okay. Commissioner Fritz.
 uh thank you i just had a question there was an article in the oregonian yesterday about the portland street response being indefinitely postponed so i just wanted to ask about the carryover for that money and why we would not allocate it in the fall bump instead oh okay and just before we get to that um i want to close the loop with commissioner hartesty director green is uh attempting to log on and so we i'm
 I'm deliberately stalling a little bit, and then we will come back to your questions regarding the Office of Youth Violence Prevention. And Director Kennard, correct me if I am wrong, I saw the same article and I was also confused. The $500,000 that we allocated as a council for the pilot has been carried over in the proposed budget.
 And if we support the amendment that I have put on the table, which would be the second amendment that I put on the table, that would also be using resources for the nurse triage program. Specifically, that would be using...
 So, Mayor, I can help you with that. Part of that is paying for the evaluation as well as the creation of the nurse triage. Yeah, that's careful. The question Commissioner Fritz asked was, has the program been indefinitely delayed? I don't believe it has. Absolutely not.
 I don't know. The answer to that question is no. I have not read the same article that Commissioner Fritz has read. But clearly, our plan had been to start the pilot this month, in fact. Clearly, we can't start the pilot because people are on stay-at-home orders.
 But it is our desire and expectation that as soon as we are not ordered to stay at home, that that process will continue on. And it has continued on. It's continued through our union negotiations, which had to be put in place. The Bureau of Emergency Communication has to do some new training, which again, I'm
 has been delayed because of COVID-19. But there is absolutely nothing that, I have no indications that we won't be full steam ahead as soon as this current pandemic crisis is over. Thank you, Commissioner. And Commissioner Fritz has her hand up again, and then I want Director Kennard to chime in if it's helpful.
 Thank you very much. That's helpful clarification, Commissioner Hardesty. I just thought that some folks at home might be wondering that question. To be clear, I think the nurse triage is an essential component of the Portland Street response. And so I definitely support if the whole package is moving forward doing that. But I still so I guess what I just heard you say, Commissioner Hardesty, is that it might start at the beginning of the fiscal year. And so you need the money now.
 that's correct she's not thank you thank you very good director can argue yeah I'll just add from a technical standpoint so what we're doing today is we're taking money out of the current year's budget to make it so it's available for spending in next year's budget but today's action is just taking the money out of the current year budget the question as to where it goes and how it's available on July 1 will be taken up as part of the approved budget next week
 So if there's a desire for that money to be ready to go out the door on July 1, we'll want to make sure that at next week we offer an amendment to actually budget those funds in specific bureaus' budgets. Right now, that $500,000 is in a contingency account waiting for appropriation. So if we know where we want that money to go and want it to be available to go out the door July 1st, next week we'll want to make that amendment to put that in a bureaus' budget.
 That may have been the source of the confusion. I can sort of see that from a layman's perspective as to why somebody might look at that and say that the resources have been put somewhere else. So I understand that confusion, but that's clearly not the case based on the testimony that we're hearing today, that the program has been delayed, certainly not indefinitely. Okay.
 Good. All right. I'm still stalling. So what we're going to do is we're going to go through the vote and I'm going to exclude OYDP for the moment so we can get to, we can have Director Nike Green come on board. So let's see. We will start with my amendment two. This was the one with regard to the Bureau of Emergency Communications that we just discussed. Carla, please call the roll. Artisty? Yes.
 Aye. Sorry, aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Motion passes. The third motion was regarding the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to continue to fund the Bureau of Planning Sustainability Equity Program work. Any further discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll on the amendment. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz?
 I very much appreciate the discussions that have happened between the Office of Equity and Human Rights and the Planning Bureau. I particularly want to thank Director Andrea Durbin and all of her staff for their commitment to equity and to working in a collaborative manner citywide. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The motion carries.
 The fourth motion was regarding the Portland Parks and Recreation General Fund budget. This was set aside funds in the general fund contingency for program carryover and reallocation related to fleet. Any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Goodailey? Aye. Glitz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 Hi, the motion carries. And now using the miracle of low technology, Bureau Director, the head of the Office of Youth Violence Prevention, Nike Green is on a cell phone sitting on my laptop, hopefully able to communicate with all of you. Nike, are you there?
 I am. And Commissioner Hardesty, can you hear Nike? I can hear Nike. Good morning, Nike. Very good. We just MacGyvered this. All right. So Commissioner Hardesty had some questions for the director. If you could quickly restate the question, Commissioner Hardesty. Happy to, Mayor. Good morning, Nike. As the mayor presented your proposal, I had a question about healing hurt people and
 When we last heard about that program at the City Council, it was a grant funded program. And my understanding is that this amendment is asking us to fund one individual that would then go to different hospitals to support the family after a shooting has taken place.
 I am very concerned that once again, the city of Portland will be put in a position of funding something one time temporarily. And then we will be asked over and over again to refund this. The grants went away. What is the strategy? The last time that gentleman spoke at City Hall, in fact, they were about to hire a second person.
 I am very concerned that one person is not going to be able to do the job that we are setting up. So, if you could tell me what your plan is around healing hurt people, I would be very appreciative. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for your question. As far as healing hurt people is concerned, the history behind that is the original came from Cascadia Behavioral Health, who carried the MOU and provided the funding for that program.
 Came to the end of their buddy-o, picked up the MOU, and without funding, they allowed our current individual, who is our Healing Hurt People person, to continually operate and provide the services. But his role is currently unfunded as Healing Hurt People, although the service is being provided.
 previous to COVID-19 and all the different things, yes, we definitely have already trained a second individual who currently also is in a different role at that capacity and is not funded. And so as we were wanting to continue to carry that work over, that is what the request is and ask for. Now in regards to your question for moving forward, I'd agree with you. We don't want to continue to have a role
 roles and positions and services built on a yearly request of funding. So we are currently looking for
 funding and different grant organizations so in the future that we can accommodate two to three year funding for that FTE. Because what I've learned since I've been in the office is that just obviously in any program, you don't want to fund things on a yearly basis. So number one, it is not currently funded, but it is currently operating. And that's what we're asking for for that position. That would allow us the time to solidify funding.
 and grant foundations to then continue to uphold that program. Thank you very much, Nike, for that response. My second question had to do with ceasefire, which has been a colossal failure all across the country. I am very concerned that we are taking on a national model.
 that consistently has had negative impacts on black and brown communities. And I guess for me, Nike, I appreciate it. I got an email from you yesterday, which was the first time that I...
 had heard from you, it would be really helpful for us to have a briefing about what that office does and what the vision is for the future. So if you could say a little bit about the ceasefire effort that you want to start, where does that come from and why would we invest in that? So the components that we're discussing in the amendment that's on the floor as far as ceasefire practices in which we're talking.
 the Restorative Academy, making sure that we provide prevention and intervention services for those that are most impacted to be victims or offenders. In regard to the larger conversation around ceasefire, I think right now we're all in the mission of investing our efforts and our research and our data gathering on what would a combined collective effort with a multi-fond around gun violence reduction look like.
 that is completely a ceasefire Portland model, or it's just our gun violence reduction strategy, that is continually in regard to our conversation. So I would love to sit down and have that thorough conversation with you. As stated, you know, within the interruption of COVID-19 and the challenges facing, we had to reallocate our priorities and our efforts. And so I think there's more forthcoming in what a combined citywide strategy will look like.
 And I would love to continue in that dialogue with you. I miss what I Nike, I really appreciate you making yourself available and answering these questions that today I know this is a, it's all challenging for all of us.
 are operating a bit differently. I am going to support the mayor's proposal today, but it is a conditional support that I'm going to provide. I'm going to expect that I'm going to know a lot more about this when we have this conversation in the fall bump process, because I'm going to assume that we've had a chance to really think through what the next steps are
 and then how we can be helpful in developing programs that keep our community members safe. So thank you so much. I appreciate your willingness to jump on and be center stage for a minute to answer some of these questions. Thank you so much, Commissioner Hardesty, for your questions and your support of this.
 divide out here in North Portland. I have five devices and we finally figured out one that did work. So thank you, Mayor. Yeah, thank you. And before Nike hangs up, does anybody else have any questions for Director Green? Very good. All right. Thank you. We'll talk to you soon. Bye-bye. Troubleshooting. I love it. All right. Carla, please call the roll on amendment number one. Courtesy.
 Again, thank you, Mayor, for moving us around so that I had a chance to get a couple of my questions answered. I look forward to learning more about the potential of the work that the Office of Youth Violence Prevention is doing. I vote aye. New Daily. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 All right, the motion carries and uh, thank you commissioner hardesty. I enjoyed the conversation and I appreciate uh the manner in which you supported the motion today and um
 We should have these conversations. We have the opportunity over the course of the summer to do that. I think we should all have a collective understanding of what the program's going to do and how it's going to work. I want to make sure that as we move forward, the council feels completely comfortable with the strategy that we're pursuing. With that, Carla, this brings us to the main motion with the amendments as already approved. Is there any further discussion to the main motion?
 Carla, please call the roll to adopt the supplemental budget ordinances amended. Curtis D. Udaile. Aye. Ritz. Well, this is my 12th spring supplemental bump. In 2009, we had the Great Recession. And in 2013, we had a $25 million gap. And no other of those challenges compare with the sudden collapse of revenue that we're experiencing right now with COVID.
 In addition to the economic challenges, we've had to be mindful that merely being out of our homes increases everyone's risk of contracting a potentially deadly disease. And so I greatly appreciate Jessica Kinnard in the City Budget Office and also Mayor Wheeler for your nimble attention to all of the things that are changing almost on a daily basis. Never mind almost on a daily basis. And I think this is a very wise and practical approach to addressing
 addressing many of the problems and I am glad to support it and vote aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The supplemental budget ordinance as amended is adopted. Thank you Director Kennard. Again, thanks to your entire team. Thanks to the folks on my team, particularly President Christ and Dennis who worked so hard on this. Thank you colleagues for your refinements and your collaboration on this. Good work everybody.
 The next item is to the regular agenda item 366 please Carla. Proclaim May 2020 to be Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. Colleagues, part of what makes Portland the great city that it is, are the many cultures that are woven throughout our community. They add diversity, vibrance, and important perspectives.
 As a city, we must continue to recognize and celebrate the many historical and cultural contributions made by all cultures to our great community. Today and all during the month of May, we're celebrating the more than 45,000 community members who trace their roots to Asia and the Pacific Islands.
 The Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, who I'll refer to as our AAPI neighbors, helped make the city of Portland better by bringing their diversity, their rich cultures, their traditions, their religions, and of course their amazing cuisines to our community.
 We also acknowledge and understand that this pandemic is having a disproportionately negative effect on our AAPI community. They were amongst the very first to experience the economic fallout from the COVID-19 crisis, even before we were all ordered to stay home. Furthermore, they've seen a rise in speech against them due to this pandemic.
 As a city, we must continue to be committed to seeking solutions to the problems our AAPI neighbors are experiencing. Now, more than ever, there's a need for unity amongst all Portlanders. Let's all come together to support our local AAPI businesses and organizations and lend them encouragement during these trying times. As a city, we are committed to serving the needs and the interests of the AAPI community.
 Before I read the proclamation, we will hear from Dr. Alison Prasad and Malo Ali Alina. Welcome. Good morning, namaste, and bula, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Hardesty-Udaily, Fritz, and colleagues. My name is Dr. Alison Prasad, and I'm the People and Culture Analyst within the Bureau of Human Resources.
 In addition, I serve on the leadership committee for the Hapa Asian and Pacific Islanders Deep Affinity Group at the City of Portland. Before I begin, I would like to thank Jamal, Mustafa, Khan, Tim, Eileen, and Joseph from Mayor Ted Wheeler's office for their time, energy, and assistance with today's Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month Proclamation event. We are Portland.
 This month, we honor the history, culture, tradition, and contributions of AAPI community members, both locally and nationally. As a qualitative researcher, I believe in the power of storytelling, narratives, and oral histories. Today, I'd like to share my story with you.
 I am the great-granddaughter of Gidimithias, indentured laborers who were brought by the British from colonial India to the colony of the Fiji Islands. Tomorrow commemorates 141 years since the arrival of the first Indians to Fiji. My grandparents were farmers in Winandawa who did not know how to read or write. My parents are immigrants from the Fiji Islands who hoped for a better life.
 This is also where I was born and lived until I was one years old. When I was two, I moved to Fiji to live with my grandparents and was reunited with my family in Canada when I was three. At the age of 14, my family moved to Northeast Portland, where I attended Thomas Jefferson High School. I was a student in the Health Sciences, Biotechnology, and Dance programs.
 I was also an intern at Legacy Emanuel Medical Center, a member of the National Honor Society, and a varsity cheerleader my junior and senior year. I went on to receive multiple college scholarships, including the Dean's in Diversity Building Scholarship to the University of Oregon, where I graduated Phi Beta Kappa with a BA in Ethics Studies.
 As an undergraduate student, I was also involved in various local and national student organizations. I also became a student activist and lobbied in Salem, Oregon and Washington, D.C. on issues concerning underserved and historically marginalized communities. I continued my education and received an M.A. in Educational Policy and Leadership, Diversity Studies, and a Ph.D. in Multicultural and Equity Studies in Education from The Ohio State University.
 As a student, I worked for the Young Scholars Program, which is a pre-collegiate and collegiate pipeline program between Ohio State and nine urban school districts across the state of Ohio for first-generation college students. After receiving my doctorate, I followed my heart and passion for sports and received my first seat at the table with Major League Baseball. From the ballpark to the boardroom, this was truly my field of dreams.
 My journey continued on to the Oregon Museum of Science and History, where I conducted research and evaluation to create access and opportunities for diverse populations through STEM education. I also wrote a technical manual for NASA, a reminder that your dreams should be out in this world. I then became a public servant here at the City of Portland.
 I've served as the city's affirmative action aide and have had the opportunity as an engagement specialist and people and culture analyst to conduct research and stakeholder engagement on behalf of each of your offices, including that of the late Commissioner Nick Fish. My research findings have also led to the development of core values for the city of Portland. Currently, I also serve on the board of directors for Cascadia Behavioral Health Care and the Portland Workforce Alliance.
 As I reflect on my life and journey, I will continue to carry the spirit of my ancestors within my mind, body, heart, and soul.
 As I conclude, I would like to express my gratitude to each of you for your leadership service in Himlat, which is the Hindi word for courage, during these unprecedented times. My hope is that as a city, nation, we continue to demonstrate love, care, compassion, solidarity, justice, and humanity towards one another. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Prasad. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 Talo'falawa, Ma'alolale, I am Ma'alolale, I am also known as Ma'alolale for short, and I use all pronouns. I do want to also be mindful that I have another community member by the name of Virginia Luca. Much of our work together in volunteerism is intertwined, and she's Palauan, so she can speak for herself after I speak.
 I want to thank you, Mayor Wheeler, and also the City Council Commissioners for this opportunity to speak on behalf of the Pacific Islander community with regard to Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month, especially during a time where COVID-19 is impacting us not only health-wise but economically.
 And it's really interesting, you know, as a community member, just watching the dynamics involved for our elected officials and our staff preparing budgets
 And so I'm grateful for Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Udailey and Commissioner Fritz and you yourself, Mayor, for just having that thoughtful conversation. Things that Hardesty had brought up, you know, I'm feeling in my heart like, yeah, why can't we think differently outside the box? And then you have this proclamation about, you know, how we can be celebratory, right?
 So I do want to point out that with Prosper Oregon, even before COVID-19 had impacted the Portland area, that they had partnered with APANO.
 to provide financial assistance to many of our Asian-owned businesses in the downtown Chinatown, as well as the Jade District. So I just want to be mindful of that. And we're very grateful for stepping in during a time where discrimination was on the high, and a lot of people were not being patrons to any of these businesses.
 But I also want to talk about the narrative of what's happening to the Pacific Islander community right now. Yesterday, the Oregon Health Authority published a data report. And with that, I believe there's like 79,000 tests that have gone out and performed. And of that number, 3,358 people tested positive. And we have about 130 deaths.
 For Pacific Islanders, we have the highest rate of infection at 19.6 per 10,000. We have 33 confirmed cases, of which a majority of those cases come in the Portland area within Multnomah County. We also have nine hospitalizations and one death. So our Pacific Islander community, when we heard the first news back,
 during the week of April 20th, we formed the Oregon Pacific Islander COVID-19 Emergency Response and we're all volunteering our talents, our skill sets,
 our resources in which Utopia PDX, which I am a board member of, has dedicated $10,000 for the seed money to help many of our Pacific Islander individuals and families to get tested, to help them think about that process, because there's a trust factor that's missing right there.
 And it's helping them transition, helping them get used to the idea that if we don't know your status, we don't know how to take care of this issue, we don't know how to stop the spread of COVID-19. And it's just coming from a lens of cultural humility, cultural responsiveness, and cultural responsibility. And I just, this is not a ask.
 But it's just something that I want for you to understand that we have people from the Chuukese community, people from the Palawan community, people from the Marshallese community, people from the Yapese community, as well as Pingalapese, Tongan, Samoan, and Native Hawaiian community banding together.
 In response to this emergency, and we realize this is happening with many Black, Indigenous, people of color communities as well. And so for me, it's more than just celebrating, you know, who we are and what we've contributed. It's really who we are in response to what's happening now that I think those narratives need to be captured.
 And at this time, I'd like to share the floor with Virginia Luca. Virginia? Good morning, Virginia. Thanks, Mayla.
 Thank you so much, Malo, for that. Hi everyone, my name is Virginia Luca. I use she and they pronouns. Thank you so much Mayor Wheeler and the City Council Commissioners for the API Heritage Month Proclamation, as well as for having me today. I want to greet us all in the Indigenous languages, our Pacific Islander communities that live in Portland, Ali, Hapha Day, Tirao,
 Ranaanim, Yakawe, Mukedin, Talofalava, Aloha, and Malo Elele.
 My mother is Palauan from the island of Ngai Aour, from the clan Ora Kiblay. And my father is white. He was born and raised on a dairy farm in Wisconsin with French-Canadian heritage. He joined the Navy during the Vietnam War, and eventually he sailed to my mother's island of Palau, where he met my mom. I was born in Palau, and I was raised on the island of Guam for 25 years before moving to Oregon 17 years ago. Currently, I...
 have a role of a Pacific Islander researcher and community organizer. I sit on the board of APANO, and thank you again, Mayor Wheeler and Prosper Portland for all the funding that you provided us to help with the businesses in the Jade District, as well as Old Town Chinatown.
 I also sit on the board of Living Islands and serve as the program coordinator for Utopia PDX's Pacifica Leads program. Utopia PDX is the United Territories of Pacific Islanders Alliance Portland. We advocate for queer and trans Pacific Islanders in our area.
 I'm also a member of Bruna Ligel de Belao, a Palauan community organization that has been serving Oregon and Southwest Washington for over 30 years. And I'm here today with the hopes of highlighting what I've learned as a Pacific Islander researcher and community organizer. The experiences of our Pacific Islander community meets at the intersection of systemic oppression and as well as historical resiliency, and it's really important for us to
 share and embrace our Pacific Islander cultural ways of knowing, sharing our stories, lived experiences, and our ancestral history.
 history, all of that is also data. Data is not just numbers, it's also our lived experiences and stories. And any work that aims to serve our Pacific Islander community, it really must be centered on healing and reclaiming our identities, and it must be community-led from start to finish. I'd really like to advocate for the use of disaggregated demographic data collection methods, such as the REAL-D, which is race, ethnicity, language, and
 disability, as well as SOGI, the sexual orientation and gender identity. I would really love if we could have all of our government systems making use of these types of demographic data collection methods in order to ensure a more authentic and nuanced self-identification method in order to help us to notice and address our disparities.
 And finally, our Pacific Islander community recognizes that we really need a cultural resource center where we can gather, access resources for our needs, as well as especially host our cultural preservation classes and do things like celebrate our heritage. Thank you all for the amazing work that you're doing for our community, especially during this time of the pandemic.
 I really just want to say from the bottom of my heart, thank you all for doing all that you do to advocate for our lives. Thank you. Thank you, Virginia, for those great comments. And we'll open it up to my fellow commissioners before I read the proclamation. We'll start with Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you all for that incredible testimony. I actually had a question for Marlo, if I might.
 Marlo, you were talking about, I was not going to today during this proclamation bring up all the bad stuff that is going on, but you opened the door. And so I want to take an opportunity to help folks understand. Marlo, thank you for your appreciation of the early support.
 of Jade and Chinatown businesses that was provided by the city and POS for Portland. But I want to talk about what the real lived experience is in Asian Pacific Islanders communities over the last, let's say, six months, because even before we had our first
 coronavirus case in the United States of America, this racism had already come across the globe to target your community. And so I'd like to know what the current situation is and how we can actually get people the help they need if they're experiencing this racially discriminatory behavior and activity. Thank you for the question, Commissioner Hardesty.
 I've had talks with Con Tran who's out of Mayor Wheeler's office even long before like I think it was back in February where folks were really hesitant about shopping at businesses or even be seen going to certain Asian owned businesses or restaurants because of the backlash of an association with
 you know, the novel coronavirus where it originated from. And I feel that, you know, that sort of carried over into COVID at the time of COVID, but it's impacting everyone just the same. But I have friends that are really scared to not go out by themselves if they do have to do a shopping run or a medication run and
 And so they're very vigilant and they're very mindful of the times that they go out and who they go out with and notifying people, you know, that during this time and this time I plan to go here. So if I'm not back, you know, in my place before then, you know, text or call me just to make sure that I'm okay.
 If someone in the Asian Pacific Islander community feels that they have been discriminated against, treated with racist insults, etc., etc., does your community know where to go to file complaints? Will they file complaints? And what vehicles have they been using for that complaint process? Yes.
 So PUA has partnered with APANO very well with regard to this. So there is a form of reporting certain instances such as that. And I don't have the numbers, and I know that some of it is also anonymous. Well, we can't know exactly who's reporting it. But APANO staff, you know, is addressing it with PUA staff. Wonderful.
 One of the things that I know is that I read just this week that the Department of Justice had seen like a 400 percent increase in racially targeted activity, which shocked me because, you know, they don't normally they say they do, but they're not normally the place that people go to to file those kind of complaints. Right.
 And so when I heard that they had that many new cases, I just know that it's so pervasive across the city. So I'm gonna go back to a more positive note because we are here about celebrating our Asian Pacific Islander heritage and culture. And so I wanted to go to Virginia, I believe,
 who was talking about how we would bring, how we're looking forward to actually, once the pandemic is over, once we are rebuilding the kind of community that we wanna have. Virginia had talked about gatherings of community members. Now we know we can't do that now, but maybe Virginia could help whet our appetite for what we hope will come in the fall or maybe the winter of next year.
 Virginia, could you help give us some joy about where we're headed when this pandemic's over?
 Yes, thank you so much Commissioner Hardesty. Yes, for example, the Rangaligal Belao, we normally have a Palawan President's Day Festival every year around June. And that's not happening because we want to make sure to keep our friends and families safe and so it is going to be postponed until next year. We have hundreds of people, oh my gosh, we have like 800 people come, you know, from
 California, Oregon, Washington to come and have Palauan food, we have Palauan music, we, you know, normally the either the Palauan President or the Palauan Vice President actually comes all the way to Oregon to Portland for that because we have such a large community of Palauans here. I look forward to The President, I was He was there having lunch and I met him Last year. So, so yes.
 Yes, yes, so I personally look forward to that, because that's my community, but, you know, as well as for Utopia PDX, you know, we have so many celebrations during Asian Pacific Islander Heritage Month for our queer and trans Pacific Islanders, who we call ourselves cutie pies for short, so, you know, there's all sorts, you know, it's
 the Polynesian population you know they have their luau Portland State University has their annual luau um you know and our different populations Melanesian Micronesians and Polynesians we all have different ways we celebrate that have different meanings but it's always together to say hey we made it another year let us you know praise ourselves that we made it again and to really have love
 for our community. And it's not just for Pacific Islanders. We always have everyone come and please share with us. So thank you again for your time. Thank you so much. Thank you, Virginia. Thank you, Milo. And I will just say, Virginia, you're absolutely right. I think one of the things our culture share is that was the first thing I was told. We're gonna have lots of food. You should come. It's gonna be great. Let's eat.
 I love this and just to kind of wrap up what I wanted to say in this portion is I
 I am so proud of the Asian Pacific Islander community and the Portland Metro area, because even, uh, pre pandemic, what I know is that, um, it, we, we've always operated as a collective community, right? So it's not about who's in what position it's about. How do we collectively work as a community? And that's always brought me so much pride and so much appreciation, um,
 watching El Pano, let me just say grow, from an imagination in Joseph Lyon Santos' head and to the fabulous organization it is today brings me a lot of pride as well. And so just know we've got your back. We're going to be here. We're all in this together. And as soon as we can get together, we'll eat, have music, do lots of good, fun stuff. So thank you all for your time. And thank you, Mayor, for indulging me to say
 get to where I needed to be for this proclamation. Thank you all. That was actually a great conversation. I loved it. Virginia, you're right. I think the great intersect is, as you quoted it so eloquently, let's eat. Commissioner Fritz, you're up next and then Commissioner Udaly. Thanks, Maren. Thank you, Virginia and Marlo. On that note, I would have to say that one of the best meals I've had in the last nine weeks has been from Thai chili jacks.
 Thai Chili Jam, who is my favorite restaurant downtown. I was so excited when I found out they were delivering. So thank you for that. I also want to recognize that the Tongan celebration is probably not going to happen this year. That's been one of my favorite events over the time I've been on the council. I believe Oregon is the only state that has a statewide celebration and we often have people coming from the Tongan Islands. So I will miss that and I will look forward to going to
 in the future. I want to also note that the Oregon State Department of Justice currently has a petition online for support for the
 Asian American Pacific Islander community. You can find it by going to by googling Oregon Department of Justice, and the link is right at the top. And there's also a link there for reporting hate and bias crimes. And thanks to Tatiana Elihaldi in the Office of Equity and Human Rights for bringing that to my attention. Tatiana has also been working with the Human
 communities are still deeply affected by events in the country of Oregon and that there are many, there's other horrendous things happening beyond COVID and the discrimination that people have had. And actually one of my staff has experienced bias speech more than once recently and it's
 It's pitiful and heartbreaking and really sad. So we recognize that there are events in the Philippines in particular that the Portland Philippine ex-community has brought to the Human Rights Commission's attention and that they will be striving to developing a response.
 need to recognize that the challenges continue and so do the successes. So it's been wonderful to see APANO growing as Commissioner Hardesty said. It's, it's, I hope you know that we are sorry, that I am sorry for the discrimination and hate that's been happening. And I am so glad that you are here and that you are part of the community that you have your special communities and that you are part, you are Portlanders. And so it's, it's,
 that we are celebrating you today. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I had prepared remarks, but I really feel like they'd be redundant at this point. So I'm going to save everyone a few minutes and just say thank you to our guests for being here today and how excited I am to celebrate Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month.
 I've really enjoyed working with communities across the city from the Japanese Garden to Okano. I dearly miss all the restaurants I like to frequent in the Jade District and I realize that there are about a dozen restaurants, Japanese
 Chinese, Thai, Burmese, which is one of my favorites, that have been keeping me fed throughout this crisis. So I want to thank everyone, all the essential workers for keeping us fed, among other things.
 we're going to be posting on Facebook throughout the month different ways you can learn about stories, history, and culture of our various Asian American Pacific Islander communities and encouraging the whole city to celebrate. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly, and I want to thank Dr. Prasad and Mello and Virginia for your testimony this morning. This has been a fantastic discussion that just underscores
 the deep significance of the AAPI community here in Portland. And we love the food, of course, let's eat, but it goes so much deeper than that in so many different directions in so many ways. And I'm really grateful for the partnership that we have with APANO and the J district and other organizations
 to help really make this community thrive here as part of the broader community. So thank you for that. Thank you for the positivity. And I am proud of the fact that the city of Portland's very first recovery investments related to COVID did go to the J district. That's so critically important to our overall economy and to the community at large. And obviously it's critically important to the AAPI community. And I'm,
 I'm confident that those early dollars will quickly be expended and that we'll need to continue to support and uplift the community as well as the J district specifically. So thanks to all who worked so hard on this. So it's now my pleasure to read a proclamation on behalf of the city council. Whereas Portland is home to more than 45,000 community members who trace their roots to the Pacific Islands and Asia.
 And whereas the Pacific Islander, Native Hawaiian, Southeast, South, and East Asian American communities are proud of their heritage and draw strength from their rich cultures and traditions. And whereas by bringing their diversity, rich cultures, traditions, and amazing cuisines, Portland is made much better by our AAPI neighbors.
 And whereas, Portland's AAPI members come from diverse backgrounds which include various languages, ethnicities, and faiths, including Buddhism, Christianity, Confucianism, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, and Sikhism.
 And whereas, Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month is an opportunity for all individuals and organizations to recognize AAPI contributions, development, and defense for our country, as well as the cultural, civic, and economic life of Portland for over 150 years.
 And whereas Portland, through dialogue with representatives from Asian American and Pacific Islander communities, continues to address the needs and concerns of its AAPI community, and remains committed to seek solutions to problems they face, such as prejudice, discrimination, and violence, specifically during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 And whereas Portlanders are encouraged to show solidarity with the AAPI community by supporting local businesses and organizations, and now therefore I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 2020 to be Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month in Portland.
 I call upon all Portlanders to recognize and celebrate the vibrant history, cultures, and contributions of our Pacific Islander and Asian American communities. Thank you, and thank you all for your participation today. Great discussion. Carla, next item is item 367. I authorize a contract with Landis and Landis Construction LLC for the construction
 Hawthorne Boulevard pipe reconstruction project number E10369 for an estimated cost $2,900,000. Colleagues, I'm pleased that in the midst of the COVID-19 crisis, city employees are working hard to keep critical services going while minimizing the impacts to our community. This project is one great example of that.
 This ordinance authorizes environmental services to expedite a major sewer construction project in the southeast Hawthorne Commercial District.
 Construction began this month while traffic is light in this ordinarily very busy area. It will allow DES to compress an eight-month schedule into just three months. The project will repair and construct nearly 3,000 feet of sewer pipe and infrastructure to address basement sewer backup risk, street flooding, and non-conforming sewers.
 Here to give a brief presentation are Joe Dvorak, who's our engineering manager, and Tressie Word, who's the senior engineer, both representing the Bureau of Environmental Services. Joe, I believe you're going to kick us off. Is that correct? That's correct. Can you all hear me? Yes, you bet. Loud and clear. Thank you, Mayor and members of council. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Dvorak. I'm here on behalf of Bill Ryan, our chief engineer. Hello, everyone.
 This time I want to acknowledge all the hard work that Tressie Word and the project team did to have this project come together. We work closely with our partners in PBOT, Portland Water Bureau, the community, and Procurement Services. So thank you Tressie. At this point I'll turn it over to her and she can talk a little bit about the project and then we'll answer any questions you may have at the end. Thanks. Hi there. Thanks Joe.
 And yeah, we'll go ahead and get started. We can move on to slide number two. I'm Tressie. Can everybody see and hear me alright? Yeah. Okay. So we are here to talk about the Southeast Hawthorne Boulevard project, which is a part of a series of projects in the Alder Basin to address basements who are backups.
 that were identified in the 2012 Combined Sewer System Plan. This project also improves ADA accessibility. So specifically, this project replaces 2,900 feet of sewer mains, about 1,900 feet of laterals, sewer laterals, and 14 ADA ramps. And all of these
 assets are located either on or directly adjacent to Southeast Hawthorne. And go ahead and accelerate to the next slide. So this project, basically COVID-19, the pandemic has created some significant economic hardships for businesses on Southeast Hawthorne. And our team's been doing a lot of extensive public outreach in the community.
 and the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association requested that our planned work be expedited to address some of these issues. So my amazing project team has come together. We've worked very closely with PIABOT and the Water Bureau on this project.
 PBOT actually has a very high priority grind and pave scheduled for this area. Not this summer, but the coming summer that this gets ahead of. And also the Water Bureau agreed to work with us to highly accelerate the construction schedule to accommodate the business association request. Next slide please.
 So as a result of the stay-at-home order, local businesses are closed and there's less traffic occurring on the street. So therefore, PBOT agreed to allow extended construction hours, which basically reduces the length of construction from eight months to three months, which is significant.
 And next slide please. So as I mentioned previously, our public involvement team has been a driving factor for accelerating this project and our lead, our public involvement lead, Debbie Castleton's here to ask any questions or to answer any questions that you may have regarding that matter in a moment here. Next slide please.
 This is an estimated construction amount of 2.9 million and Joe's going to talk a little bit about the business inclusion and diversity elements for the project. Great. Thank you, Trussey. So as you as we see in this slide, the
 The utilization amount identified by Landis & Landis is just over 25% and you see the breakdown there. You know, while 25% exceeds the city's aspirational goals, we certainly have a lot of work to do. So BES's equity manager and our partners in procurement services
 are looking at ways to improve equity and contracting. I'm actively engaged as the design division manager to see what we can do from a design perspective to get these numbers up. I think that's the last slide. We have some time for to answer any questions at this point. Actually this slide is really cool, our question slide. It's a photo from 1921 which is right in the middle of our project area and where the Cochran Cider Company is, is where the Baghdad Theater is now.
 so anyway yes questions please yeah that's cool uh any questions commissioner hardesty uh thank you mayor uh and thank you uh uh tressie and um was it john uh everything's moving my screen is moving all over the place okay i'm back it's jill
 Thank you, Joe, for the presentation. I appreciate you acknowledging that we must do better when it comes to equity goals because, again, even though the totality exceeds our 20% aspiration, we still are not doing the job that we need to do to make sure that we're getting dollars into the hands of minority contractors. Right.
 So having said that, my question is expedited, great, people aren't traveling, but didn't the governor just say all retail operations will be open Friday? And if that's the case, what does that mean in regard to this plan? I had not heard that. Okay.
 You know, we even before COVID, we worked closely with community members and the businesses to make sure that, you know, we can stage construction to minimize impacts. I expect that Landis & Landis will do the same thing should that actually take effect on Friday. Tressie, from a project team perspective, have you looked at any other alternatives to that?
 I know that Landis and Landis and PBOT are working closely together to expedite construction in light of reopening businesses, and we are actively engaged and prepared to proceed effectively with an accelerated schedule, knowing that COVID, that the stay-at-home order could be lifted at any time.
 Yeah, we are prepared. I'm sorry, it doesn't sound like the stay-at-home order is going to be listed. My concern is if the rest of the state interprets the governor's opening retail operations this Friday, if that's the assumption that our retailers will have.
 then this expedition, based on the fact that there would be no travel or minimal travel, would be a wrong premise, if in fact that is the case and people will be more mobile. So all I'm asking is, have you considered the fact that this is changing by the hour, minute, date, and we just may not, the assumptions that you've used to expedite this just may not hold true?
 Absolutely. We are prepared to address this rapidly changing situation. And the project team, which includes members from PBOT and the ES and the business owners, Debbie also could chime in here regarding her conversations regarding the business community, but
 The expedited schedule is the preferred approach knowing that this is a rapidly changing situation and we're prepared to address it. Debbie Castleton, Public Involvement for Environmental Services. I've been working very closely with the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association and the area residents. This has been...
 for the last, I'd say, couple months that we've been talking. I'm working closely with Carla Kingsley at PBOT, who has been doing a lot of community outreach and I've been piggybacking onto that. This project was part of the Sunnyside South project previously and we expedited the Hawthorne portion
 to accommodate the businesses and finish this before the grind and pave or paint and pave project through PBOT was happening. In talking to the Hawthorne Business Association members, they definitely wanted us to expedite this to help.
 prevent chaos when things do open, but they were prepared and that if they did open before this was done, this still we would get a significant portion done before it opened. And I have to say also that the businesses, there's a lot of businesses who have curbside and we're accommodating that and working with the businesses on Hawthorne who are doing a lot of curbside pickup.
 type businesses, but there is definitely a majority that are closed. There's no doubt that that is a horrible way to travel when you have to go down Hawthorne and rush hour traffic, which used to be all day, every day. So I absolutely know the need for the service. It's just a question about whether or not
 I guess my concern is if one business association can advocate for you to speed up the process, what's to stop other business associations from saying they're not being treated equally because you did this for Hawthorne and you won't do it for somebody else. We're actually trying to do that for the Mississippi project as well to expedite. So we're working on that one as well. There's the whole Mississippi Business Association or Historic Mississippi Association.
 I think there's a balance between expediting and then making sure that we have the diversity and contracting that we want. I'm interested in having these projects done, but I'm not interested in supporting projects that just support the status quo. So I wanna be really clear that, you know, any business district can make the case for why they should be prioritized, but we have an obligation to make sure that
 our contractors are benefiting from the limited public dollars that we are investing. So thank you. Thanks. Very good. Any further questions, colleagues? Carla, is there any public testimony for this item? There's no public testifiers for this. Very good. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you both for your testimony. Thank you.
 The next item is item number 368. This is the second reading. The council's already heard a presentation on this item and has had an opportunity for public testimony. Carla, could you read item 368, please? Mm-hmm.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Goose Hollow Super Rehabilitation Project, number E10683, for an estimated cost of $5,949,000. Very good. Any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Yes.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? I'd like to thank Joe Vorek as well as Young Zhang, both from BES for their presentations last week. And I know they put a tremendous amount of hard work into this project. So thanks to both of them in particular, the Bureau at large. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 All right. And for those who did not hear 369, 370, and 371 have been moved, that takes us back to the items on the consent agenda. Just a reminder, 358, I pulled that back to my office. That leaves item 360 as our only unresolved issue today. Ella, could you read item 360?
 A settlement of James Maddox bodily injury lawsuit in the sum of $22,882 involving the Portland Police Bureau. All right. And I believe we have Jessica Bird online. Yes, I see her there. And she can briefly describe this. And then it's my understanding, Carl, this was pulled by Mr. Handelman. And I assume he'll want to testify if he's on board. That's correct. And he is waiting. Very good. Thank you.
 There we go. Yep, there you go. Thank you. Can you hear me okay? Loud and clear. Okay, good morning. This is a settlement of James Maddox bodily injury lawsuit for the sum of $22,882.23.
 On August 4th, 2018, Mr. Maddox was in downtown Portland participating in a protest. As Mr. Maddox walked backwards down Southwest Columbia Street, he was flipping off officers and yelling profanities. He was then struck in the thigh by what he alleges was a rubber bullet, which then fell to the ground.
 Mr. Maddox picked the rubber bullet up and held it in the air, shouting, look, you missed. A Portland Police Bureau officer then fired again, striking Mr. Maddox in the right arm that was holding the bullet. Mr. Maddox sustained a gash in his arm. Mr. Maddox, along with two other protesters, filed a joint lawsuit against the city and the Portland Police Bureau.
 The lawsuit contained many allegations, including excessive force, violation of the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments, assault, battery, and negligence. He alleged that as a result of the encounter, he sustained injury to his arm, including permanent scarring and emotional distress. He demanded unspecified economic damages, non-economic damages, attorney fees, declaratory relief, and injunctive relief.
 The parties engaged in informal settlement discussions and were able to reach an agreement for $22,882.23, inclusive of medical expenses, wage loss, and attorney fees. Approval of this ordinance will allow risk to pay Mr. Maddox through his attorney for the agreed settlement. I also have with me today City Attorney Robert Yamachika, if there's any additional questions for him as well.
 Very good. Do we want to take public testimony before questions? And I don't think Commissioner Hardesty has a question at this point. I think she left her hand raised. So we'll start with Mr. Handelman and if there's other public testimony as well.
 Dan, are you on? Yes, I am here. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Good morning. I am Dan Handelman, and I'm with Portland Cop Watch. And I want to start by repeating what we've said in the past about why we feel it's important for the council to discuss these police misconduct settlements publicly. It's not to call out the individual officers, though it is important to note that it's extremely rare that a settled claim results in any discipline for the involved police.
 It's also not the force of discussion about the harm suffered by the community member, though the end result of putting the items on the consent agenda is an apparent desire not to acknowledge those harms. But we've just heard them described by the city employee who just read them out. And that's, I think, important for the public to hear.
 The main reason we ask you to put these on the regular agenda is to assure the public that lessons are being learned and the city and the Bureau are taking steps to avoid such harm in the future, which will not only lead to less harm done, but will also build community trust and save the city money. Portland Cop Watch recently identified $14.2 million paid out in misconduct lawsuits since our group began in 1992. This is an average of $500,000 a year. It's a crucial thing to think about as you're facing these major budget cuts.
 To the issues underlying this particular claim, several other people filed lawsuits for the use of force by police at the same protest, which I think was just mentioned. It sounds like it was a joint suit. This claim was settled individually. There were people who were hit by flashbang projectiles that day. Police violence continued at subsequent neo-fascist versus anti-fascist protests in June and August 2019 involving use of pepper spray and pepper balls, as well as several people arrested in questionable circumstances.
 Many of those people in the August 2019 protests were women or women of color, including a woman who was recently cleared of disorderly conduct charges for twerking in the street. Clearly, the circumstances for mass gatherings has made crowd control less of an issue so far in 2020. But it would be well worth discussing the potential for police violence if protests do take place, as well as the questionable tactics used.
 though highly applauded on August 17th, bringing so many overtime officers and external agencies that there was one police officer to face off with every two protesters. That was last August 17th. I'm also hoping that we'll be able to make comments on that. We'll be able to make our comments on the item 369 tomorrow afternoon. You know, it was unexpected that that got rescheduled. So...
 We'll see what happens tomorrow. But thank you very much for the opportunity to talk about this, for letting me pull it off the agenda, the consensus agenda. Very good. Thank you. Carla, was there anybody else who wanted to testify on this item? No one else signed up. Very good. Any further discussion?
 Mr. Mayor, this is Deputy City Attorney Rob Yamachika. I'd just like to clarify a couple things just for some transparency. The total amount of the settlement is $22,882.23, 10,000 of which will be going to Mr. Maddox and $12,882.23 will be for the attorney's fees. And so as the council might be aware,
 part of our risk assessment is to minimize attorney fees in this case. And as you can see with this settlement, the attorney's fees actually are more than the settlement amount. And so that came into our calculus in reaching a settlement in this case to minimize attorney fee exposure. Thank you, Robert. We appreciate it. Good clarification. Carla, please call the roll. Okay.
 Thank you. I am always concerned, of course, when we pay out these settlements, but when I also saw the low payout amount and the fact that all parties agreed to mediation, it gave me a sense of comfort that this was the right settlement to move forward. I vote aye. Bailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Aye.
 And Carla, that completes our business for this morning, correct? Yes, it is, Mayor. Very good, everybody. Thank you all for your participation. We are adjourned until 2 p.m. Go, folks.
 I am now convening the Prosper Portland Budget Committee for the purpose of receiving the budget message. Today is Wednesday, May 13th, 2 p.m. All members of the Budget Committee members received copies of the budget on Friday, May 8th. Carla, could you please call the roll? Hardesty? Here. Udaily? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler?
 Wheeler. Here. Under Portland City Code and state law, the city council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the council are attending remotely by phone, and the city has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The public can also provide written testimony to the council by emailing the council clerk. The council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and...
 promote physical distancing. The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. I'd like to thank everybody for their continued patience, flexibility and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business. And now we will...
 Kimberly Branham, the Director of Prosper Portland, to kick us off presenting the budget message. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Our Board Chair, Chavo Cruz, is going to say a few remarks before we begin. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Chavo Cruz, Chair of the Prosper Portland Board of Commissioners.
 We are pleased to be here virtually this afternoon to present the fiscal year 2021 proposed budget for your consideration. Since we reviewed the requested budget with council on March 5th, Prosper Portland staff have been fully engaged and proactively leading Portland's response to the economic shock.
 This has required a number of quick actions and pivots in our work. Our proposed budget now recognizes near-term programmatic pivots, as well as planning for economic recovery, while also acknowledging the financial impact of the pandemic.
 On behalf of the board, I offer our thanks to the community partners and staff involved in the preparation of this budget who spent considerable time between September and January drafting the budget and putting forth priorities for general funding, cannabis and TIF funding as well. During this year's budget process, the advisory members and the board prioritized budget requests for anti-displacement initiatives and cannabis business development in addition to key ongoing programs.
 We appreciate the investments in the Mayor's proposed budget and through existing resources and new funding, we believe we can deliver on these priorities with our partners. I am proud of the agency's work and look forward to continuing to strengthen our collaborative efforts with public, private and community partners as we address the immediate impacts of the pandemic and begin the longer term recovery process.
 And again, on behalf of the board, I would like to commend Executive Director Branham and her team for their excellent work and rapid response to this crisis. The Prosper Portland team, along with our partners, is resolute in its commitment to the equitable prosperity and future of this city. I would now like to hand the presentation over to Executive Director Kimberly Branham. Thank you. Thank you, Chair Kruse.
 Good afternoon, again, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. For the record, I'm Kimberly Brannan, Executive Director of Prosper Portland, and I'm joined by my colleagues Lisa Abouaf, Tori Campbell, and Tony Barnes. I'm wondering if we can pull up the presentation.
 All right, so while that's moving forward, I'll just begin by saying how much we appreciate the opportunity to discuss our proposed budget with you this afternoon. I'm going to provide an overview of the budget and discuss how we're addressing the financial and economic impact of COVID and our high-level budget priorities. And then Tony and Lisa will share how those priorities show up in the programs that they lead with their teams.
 And finally, Tony Barnes is going to describe key components of our agency's long-term forecast. So while we do have 25 slides, we promise to move along at a good clip and we ensure that we will have plenty of time to answer your questions. All right, so next slide please. Thank you. At a high level, of the $291 million in available resources this year, we anticipate up to $166 million in total expenditures.
 More than 90% of funding resources come from existing cash balances in TIF districts and tax increment finance that will be issued next year. General fund and cannabis resources of $7 million in ongoing and one-time represent approximately 2% of anticipated resources. However, they represent a substantial portion of our economic development and operating budget.
 To support this work, we employ a total of 86 full-time and limited-term employees, with the staff level for our three largest external facing departments noted below. This is approximately three positions fewer than we included in the requested budget as a result of a cost containment agreement with our union partners. Next slide please.
 We reviewed the draft budget with our Community Budget Committee, which met seven times over the course of the budget cycle and whose members represent a diverse array of geographic, industry-specific, and community stakeholders. Staff also reviewed specific TIF district requested budgets with 11 community and neighborhood organizations to receive input.
 We met two times in the past few weeks with our Community Budget Committee to share updated thinking in light of COVID's financial and economic impact. You'll have a chance to hear from one of our co-chairs toward the end of the presentation to hear some of the committee's perspective. Next slide, please.
 As we all know, our financial picture and the city's economy have changed significantly since we submitted our requested budget in early February. So the next few slides I'm going to share the specific financial impacts reflected in the proposed budget, as well as some steps we've taken in the last few months to address the economic impact that has influenced our programmatic priorities. And while council is very well aware of these, we wanted to make sure that we were explicit about some of those programs for the general public.
 As reflected in the proposed budget and forecast, revenue from tax increment finance resources remain unchanged. However, as a result of COVID-19, we anticipate that our program income will decline by approximately 30% or $6 million per year for each of the next three years.
 The key drivers of this decline include the impact of deferring rent and loan payments to commercial tenants and borrowers in light of COVID-19, reduced demand for parking at the Convention Center hotel garage and other assets, and the interim closure of the Inn at the Convention Center. The budget also incorporates the 5% reduction in ongoing general fund resources and targeted increases in one-time programming. Next slide, please.
 In light of the financial impact, the proposed budget reflects an agreement reached with AFSCME Local 75, which includes 12 furlough days in the fiscal year for all non-managers, making more than $75,000, a one-time salary reduction of 7.5% for all managers, cutting three unfilled positions, and reducing $150,000 from general administrative materials and services.
 Together, this creates a total savings of $1.2 million from personal and general overhead budgets, which is about a 6.5% savings from what was planned in the requested budget. Throughout 2021, we will prioritize key transactions, including selling the air rights above the Convention Center Hotel garage and disposition of Centennial Mills to try to offset some of the program income losses while achieving community objectives.
 And as the health of the economy and our financial picture become clear, we will continue to evaluate our workload, our positions, and our priorities to make necessary adjustments. Next slide, please. So shifting now to our external facing efforts, as City Council is well aware, over the past few months we've developed an economic relief and stabilization framework and taken early actions with many partners.
 Guided by the Economic Recovery Task Force and City Council, our efforts are grounded in a commitment to prioritizing support for the most vulnerable, applying a racial equity lens, acting quickly and leveraging existing networks to do so, and partnering or advocating to increase the impact of our collective efforts. Building on this foundation, the framework includes four objectives.
 The first is to increase communication and connections to support. This has included establishing a central call center for small businesses and impacted individuals. We've mitigated economic hardship on impacted individuals, and this has included working with county and state partners, city council imposed an eviction moratorium for residents, and collectively advocated for unemployment insurance regulation adjustment.
 The third objective is to help small businesses stay solvent and retain employees. This began with providing $150,000 to APANO to support Jade District and Old Town Chinatown businesses and the launch of the Small Business Relief Fund with partners, which I'll touch on in just a minute.
 And of course, evaluating city business practices and redirecting available resources has included offering rent and loan payment deferrals by both the city and Prosper for borrowers and commercial tenants, as well as redirecting resources to invest in small businesses and household relief. Next slide, please.
 The Portland Small Business Relief Fund was launched with $1 million from the City Council, which was appropriated from City General Fund reserves, $1 million from the Enterprise Zone Community Contribution Fund, and nearly $400,000 in grant funding from the Oregon Community Foundation's Small Business Stabilization Fund, which was donated by a coalition of lenders and businesses with ties to the Oregon Bankers Association and the Portland Business Alliance.
 The fund provides a small grant or no interest loan to COVID impacted small businesses with 50 employees or fewer. These funds were designed as a stopgap measure to help cover payroll, manage inventory, or make lease payments, with the goal of enabling them to retain their business and employees. Next slide, please.
 Consistent with our guiding principles, the selection process was driven by a clear recognition that Black, Indigenous, and people of color, individuals with disabilities, and individuals experiencing poverty, are often disproportionately affected in an economic crisis, and by a strong desire to ensure that the current crisis does not exacerbate existing inequities.
 The review committee therefore prioritized racial equity and other intersectional identities, along with the economic impact of the investments in the application selection process. Next slide please. The demand for these resources cannot be overstated. The Portland Small Business Relief Fund received over 12,000 applications between the grant and loan programs, meaning that we had resources for approximately three percent of applicants.
 Nearly 8,800 businesses applied to the grant program. Of the 280 business owners who received funding, 90% identified as people of color and more than 60% identified as women. Grants of $2,500 went to 133 businesses with a single employee, many of whom had furloughed workers with the hopes of reemployment.
 Recipients ranged from childcare providers and healthcare services to beloved coffee houses, businesses that are truly essential to the fabric of the community. The remaining grants of $5,000 and $10,000 support businesses with multiple employees, many of which are taking extraordinary measures to support their employees. Next slide, please.
 In order to ensure equitable outcomes, we disaggregated awardees by race, ethnicity, geography, and other identities. This pie chart shows awardees by race and ethnicity for both the loan and grant recipients and demonstrates the diversity of recipients. Next slide, please. The map shows awardees by business location and demonstrates the citywide impact of the grants and loans. Next slide, please.
 The work of the task force and related programmatic adjustments have informed updates to the proposed budget and will continue to shape priorities in the coming year. Next slide, please. Prosper Portland's proposed budget implements programs and projects that are critical to ensuring an equitable economic recovery in the years ahead and aligns with the overarching priority of building an equitable economy as articulated in our 2020 strategic plan.
 The budget builds on the networks, plans, and investments made over the first five years of the strategic plan implementation and directs the Inclusive Business Resource Network, the Neighborhood Prosperity Network, our Traded Sector Business Development, and our Community-Based Action Plans in Tax Increment Finance Districts towards economic stabilization, adaptation, and recovery. Next slide, please.
 In line with the relief and stabilization framework, as well as the strategic plan objectives, the budget seeks to deliver on four priorities. The first is household recovery and relief through increased access to support and employment for impacted individuals. The second is business stabilization and recovery by equitably retaining and creating, or in some cases, recreating business assets.
 The third is community partner stabilization and recovery to maintain the capacity of critical economic and workforce development partners. And the fourth is neighborhood stabilization and recovery through our community development investments to mitigate displacement. Next slide, please.
 Looking back to the most recent fiscal year for which we have complete annual data, you'll see the reach and impact of these programs. With nearly 3,500 jobs created, retained, or placements made through our economic development activities. Nearly 1,500 adult and youth served through our workforce development programs, with 61% of participants identifying as Black Indigenous People of Color, or BIPOC.
 More than 1,000 businesses served through the Inclusive Business Resource Network, of which 72% identify as BIPOC and 58% as women, and 23% of construction funds contracted to certified firms, exceeding our goal of 20%, with 20% awarded to DM or WBE firms. We invested in nearly 50,000 square feet of affordable commercial space pilots across the city,
 and provided 35 businesses with $1.2 million in Prosperity Investment Program grants, 68% of whom are BIPOC-owned. And finally, we provided $1.5 million to 24 local nonprofit organizations through Community Livability Grants.
 As we look forward, we hope to expand the reach of our workforce business technical assistance grants and construction equity programs in the year ahead, given the programmatic pivots that you'll hear more about from Tori and Lisa next. Next slide, please. And with this, I'll pass it on to Tori Campbell, our Economic Development Director. Thank you. Thank you, Kimberly. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Good afternoon, Mayor. My name is Tori Campbell, Director of Economic Development.
 at Prosper Portland. And I want to take the next couple of sides to share a little bit more around how we have really repositioned our programs to really be in a posture of supporting recovery with a strong equity lens.
 We realize in light of the changing landscape after the COVID-19, this was a must. So the first slide shows the work that we are doing within our entrepreneurship and community economic development teams. The four programs that are highlighted here will show we'll start with workforce. Our desire there is to pivot towards what we call light touch support.
 So that means providing light touch support within workforce navigation services, which are designed to help create a more localized opportunity to engage those who are seeking employment or wanting to improve upon skills. We know that in this season with just a tremendous pandemic.
 drop off and loss of employment, this position and this role is going to be even more vital. We also know historically that oftentimes, particularly within Black and Indigenous communities, the numbers are oftentimes double what we experience just as a whole. And so we realize that this work is going to now more important than ever before. With respects to our Inclusive Business Resource Network, we've already shared briefly what our numbers were last year. We are increasing...
 Our light touch assistance, which basically allows for up to five hours of technical support, as opposed to traditionally our more long-term, which can be up to 30 hours. We still believe that will be necessary, but we really...
 At this point, want to touch more businesses across the city and providing guidance and assistance to navigate the new waters of COVID-19. We do also anticipate we will still provide very thoughtful and culturally responsive small business support, in particular to BIPOC communities and Canvas firms.
 as well as focusing on re-pivoting how we do our work online with our Mercatus and our My People's Market. So in that instance, with Mercatus, which is an online platform that elevates the unique stories of entrepreneurs of color in our city, as well as it is a directory that helps with procurement opportunities, we want to boost that content, create more opportunities and business promotion to ensure that businesses are able to continue to find new markets to grow their business platform.
 We also have Waiting in Lube, our My People's Market, eager to have it start as soon as we have the green light and are able to navigate phase three of the overall opening strategy for our state. The next area is our Small Business Relief Fund, as I already mentioned, and we'll continue to make efforts to find additional funding and support businesses as we can.
 The last area is working within our neighborhood prosperity network and also our partnership with Venture Portland, who both provide complimentary supports for commercial corridors within neighborhoods. And the goal there is to provide continued building capacity of organizations who really represent the boots on the ground in terms of supporting both communities as well as the business community in their respective neighborhood. Next slide, please.
 Take a few moments to talk about our business and industry back in it.
 Yes, thank you. Sorry. Within our business and industry, we are focusing again, our pivots are going to be increasing our firm and industry engagement. We've been doing that actively, but we'll continue to pick that up just to understand and ensure that services and connections are made available during this difficult time for businesses, particularly those that are vulnerable, wanting to help them continue to find ways to grow and support those firms.
 The next area we will be focusing on during this time is startups. As many of you know, during our past recession, when employment became high, many turned to their own kind of inventions and innovations as entrepreneurs. And we anticipate that this will also happen again. And so we want to position ourselves by creating really equitable opportunities for startups, for founders, entrepreneurs.
 who will call Portland home as we want to support post-layoff company development, particularly in green cities and our athletic and outdoor clusters. Portland means progress, again, very important.
 initiative. We really see this as very vital in this moment to reposition to a recession posture, which means including focusing on how employers can respond to the COVID-19 with a strong equity framework, as well as to really think about strategies to maximize intentional purchasing through our My People's Markets and our Portland Means Progress businesses. And we believe that that is going to be a very necessary component, a very positive way that businesses can support one another.
 And then last but not least is our enterprise zones. Again, we want to retool it in terms of just maximizing revenue while also reducing disqualifications for companies who might find themselves in straits that they didn't anticipate because of the COVID-19 virus. So those are the brief updates that I wanted to provide. And I will now pass it over to my colleague, Lisa. Thanks, Tori. Next slide, please. Thanks, Tori.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I'm Lisa Abouaf, Director of Development and Investment. Similar to the work that Tori's team has been undertaking with regards to our economic development activities, we're also working to pivot our TIF-based work to respond to both changing business needs and also just community and market realities given COVID-19 and ensuring an equity lens as we do so.
 So one of the first areas where we're doing that is we're working closely with the Bureau of Transportation, Portland Housing Bureau, and Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to ensure that transportation improvements can occur to improve safety and access for communities, while also making sure that it supports small businesses, particularly as they weather the COVID-19 impacts.
 And given an equity lens, we're particularly focused on our work in a coordinated fashion in East Portland, North Northeast, and in Central City kind of job centers in the Central East Side and South Waterfront. The good news is we are seeing ongoing demand for small business support through tools like our Prosperity Investment Program. We have $3 million committed for the coming year.
 And with COVID-19, we're coordinating closely with the listening sessions that Tori's team will be undertaking in the coming months to understand capital improvements that businesses will have to undertake to address physical distancing over the coming months.
 Our budget also reflects, and Kimberly spoke to this earlier on, that we provided immediate business loan relief and commercial property loan relief that we started in March to ensure that those benefits would pass through to local businesses and give them lease relief, given the impacts to their operations.
 We anticipate similar needs over the coming year for many of the important community anchor nonprofits who have also been impacted, and we have identified 1.7 million available for community livability grants to continue that program.
 And we also know that COVID-19 has impacted local businesses' ability to pay their leases and access space. And so one of the first things we did was also provide lease deferments for businesses that are in properties that Prosper itself owns.
 Looking forward, as we think about our community action plans and priorities, one of the new opportunities that we're starting to look at is ways that we could help stabilize property owners and businesses, either through property acquisition or other mechanisms that would help property owners keep their properties as they're looking at tenants who may not be able to pay their full leases and therefore they can't pay their full debt.
 And that will build upon the other work that we've already been undertaking for a couple of years now with regards to affordable commercial space at sites like Lentz Commons, 106th and Halsey, 10th and Yamhill, and Joyce Hotel. Next slide, please.
 We also know that one of the most direct ways that Prosper Portland can continue to support quality employment and MWBE and DBE businesses is through our construction related projects. And our goal is to keep development and partner infrastructure projects moving forward from those that are in construction, like projects that you see in the upper right, that's 106th and Halsey.
 at Gateway all the way through to the demo contracts that we are starting to let on Broadway corridor, as well as supporting making sure that there's a two to three year pipeline of projects that are ready to go as we're building capacity within the workforce.
 And our small business providers on projects like the Cultural Business Hub that supports the North Northeast Community Development Initiative. It's one of the five goals of that initiative. And we anticipate issuing an RFI seeking potential projects and partners through that this coming summer, which would then lend itself to investments over the coming year.
 And with that, I think I will hand it back over to Tony. Lisa, could I ask you a question before you disappear there? Sure. The projects that you have identified here excluding Broadway corridor, these are all projects that continue to move forward. Can you tell us how has this COVID crisis impacted those plans, if at all? Yeah, it's a great question.
 To date, we have not heard any impacts to commercial development that was in process or underway. So unlike, I know we've had this conversation with the Housing Bureau that was tremendously impacted. The housing tax credit program has been impacted. We're not seeing that impact on the commercial side of the market. And so we're continuing to pursue kind of...
 We pursue all of our projects. The one place I would say we have seen delays, but it's understandably so, is on some of our tenant improvements and some of our permitting. If we weren't kind of a priority project in BDS's roster, we have seen delays, but it's delaying by just a couple of months. It's not a significant delay. All right, good. And before I call on Commissioner Hardesty, I'll just note the schematic there for the Broadway corridor really shows us how much things have changed.
 in the last few months. When you look at that, it almost makes you cringe, doesn't it? Commissioner Hart is going to have a question. Thank you, Mayor. I was trying to patiently wait to the end, so you broke that mode. I appreciate it. Yeah, I got into the vibe quickly.
 I also, I have a question about the RFQ that's going to go out around the Northeast Cultural Business Hub, as well as the ongoing work around the, what we're calling now Central East Side projects.
 actually, maybe it's Broadway Quarter is what it used to be. Yeah, you're right. I didn't recognize that part of town, Mayor, so that may explain the confusion. It doesn't exist yet. Okay.
 No, it doesn't. And so my concern is if we are going to either do requests for information or request for proposals, if we haven't fundamentally centered equity in those requests for proposals, then we will continue to get the weak proposals back that we get that don't center equity.
 And so I'm really curious as to how even your advertisement for people to respond will look different based on the city of Portland's commitment to centering frontline communities and making sure that those opportunities exist.
 So I'm happy to, we welcome kind of any advice or thoughts. The picture in the upper left-hand corner is actually a picture with that very thought in mind, which was an opportunity for community-based organizations in North Northeast, as well as development firms, to do a meet and greet. And so we did that early on just so that folks were both familiar with what the goals of the Cultural Business Hub were within the CDI,
 which is the concept of an African American focused small business center and community anchor so that the development community could hear that and understand what the opportunity was going to be, as well as to have nonprofits who are potentially interested in being tenants in the space able to engage with the development community.
 We know Broadway Quarter will be the biggest development project the City of Portland has ever seen. Currently, there has not been opportunities for local contractors to benefit significantly from any activity with that project. So while I appreciate...
 us continuing to have these aspirational goals. I think Troy said it best when he talked about, we know we will face a 30% unemployment rate coming out of this pandemic, which means that for communities of color, we're talking a 60% or more unemployment rate. And for young people, we're talking closer to a 95% unemployment rate. So if we at the city, we at Prosper,
 aren't thinking differently about how we're going to actually be able to bend that curve. We're going to end up with a very racially inequitable city once again. Yes, Commissioner Hardesty, I appreciate the comments and I agree that
 particularly in a increasingly digital environment, engagement has its own challenges. And so we're, as part of the listening sessions, we are engaging with connected partners and thinking in new ways about how we do that engagement.
 But I do want to just note that for Broadway Corridor, the first two construction projects that we bid out both went to local MBE firms. And so I can send more details on that one. But we very intentionally crafted and sized those and did outreach with our partners in a way that ensured maximum opportunities. And so the first two were local MBE firms.
 Well, I'm very happy to hear that, Kimberly. Thank you. Because, you know, I've been a thorn in your side about this. And I am hopeful that at the end of this project, we all will be proud of being much more thoughtful about how we make sure that we are centering those communities who have most been devastated and consistently don't benefit from these big projects. Thank you.
 Thank you. Before I call on Commissioner Fritz, if I could just chime in on this as well. From the very beginning conception of development of the Broadway corridor, it has been my top priority to make sure that we reset the way we do urban development in Portland, that people see this not only as the next great space, but one where everybody sees themselves in it.
 both in terms of how it's built, how it's procured, and the spaces and the amenities that are available in that district, including the housing. So equity has been front and center in every aspect of the planning and development of this project so far. And you have my commitment, Commissioner Hardesty, that it will continue
 to elevate equity and inclusion. And I believe we're close. We don't have any news, but we are getting closer. We are inching towards agreements, not only on, as Kimberly just mentioned, the early development phases and the demolition phases, but I believe we're also closer to some broader community agreements. And those conversations are ongoing. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you for the presentation. I just have a quick question. Do you happen to know how tall that building in the bottom right is? We would have to come back to you...
 I would bet it's about 70 feet. And that's the central east side project. I think she asked the bankruptcy, Lisa. Was that your question, Commissioner Fritz? It was the height. No, the height. This is obviously in a different context, which will be coming up in a few weeks. But I just wanted to get your estimate as to how tall that building is. Thank you.
 And the only other thing I would add, just because I think it's something we will certainly be doing over the coming year, is at Broadway corridor, and I apologize, I didn't I didn't register that that was the project, is we're also looking at interim uses. So we're actively engaged
 with various chambers and various community-based organizations to understand how the space, once the buildings come down at Broadway Corridor, can be used on a temporary basis for many of our community-based partners to activate the space in a way that sends a message of equity. It's a great opportunity.
 All right, so now we're going to have Tony walk us through a fairly sobering last few slides, and then we're happy to bring, just open it up for questions. Tony, are you there? Yeah, thanks, Kimberly, and good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Council. I'm Tony Barnes, Finance Manager. I wanted to end with an acknowledgment of, next slide, please. We wanted to end with an acknowledgment of some key elements and challenges in the five-year forecast and beyond.
 In order to ensure that Prosper Portland maintains the ability to support economic recovery and community resiliency, we continue to seek solutions with our board, city council, and partners in alignment with the goals of our 10-year financial sustainability plan. Next slide, please. So as a reminder, Prosper Portland's budget and forecast includes resources from 16 tax increment districts. This includes six neighborhood prosperity districts shown in green,
 that will produce revenue through 2023, four expired TIF districts shown in blue that retain assets that won't produce new revenue, and six active districts shown in yellow, which will issue new tax increment debt proceeds between 2021 and 2025. Next slide, please.
 As a result, in the next five years, Prosper anticipates approximately $600 million in resources, including about $228 million in beginning fund balance, with $373 million in new resources anticipated. As illustrated in the graph here over time, of the new resources, about 60% comes from new TIF proceeds, 29% from program income, and 12% from general fund and other public resources like community development block grants.
 With these totals, there's about $122 million committed to the housing set-aside, which is about 54% of the new TIF resources. So while significant resources remain available in the next few years, the TIF cliff is really squarely within the five-year forecast. Next slide, please.
 So in the coming year, we'll be working to address two key issues that, in addition to the Tifcliffe, could have significant and thus programmatic implications. First, with River District, implementation of Broadway Corridor and the line of credit repayment, alongside updated forecasts for reduction in program income.
 causes significant balancing challenges to fund the district priorities, currently included in the five-year forecast. And then secondly, the speed of recovery, availability of new public resources, and performance on key investments have a significant impact. It could mean up to about $23 million decrease in our forecast over the next three years, impacting the ability to fund certain projects, maintain level of service, and invest in ongoing lending and grant programs. This figure anticipates
 The significant program income reduction is mentioned by Kimberly at the beginning of the presentation, and whether the impact is higher or lower will depend on the structure of key investments and the additional loan or lease deferrals that might move forward. And with that, I'd like to pause and take any questions on the five-year forecast. All links, any questions? Commissioner Hurst? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Tony, for that sobering report. We've been knowing about this TIF cliff coming. And so I guess just knowing what we know about this cliff in resources coming, it is.
 How will Prosper Portland adjust, readjust to this new reality? Because I can honestly say I know the city won't have a free $23 million floating around in the next few years. And I know that all governmental budgets will be challenged, at least for the next couple of years, right?
 what's the plan to get to a place where the loss is minimal? What does the organization look like by the time we get to 2023, if this is the financial reality? So I'll start. I think one of the reasons that we, I mean, I think like everyone, we anticipate that the economic hit will be significant and will be lasting. But we don't want to make any,
 you know, permanent decisions at this point without some additional information. So what we're going to be looking at really closely over the next year is our performance on the program income, because the financial sustainability plan that we had put in place anticipated that we would utilize the $600 million corpus to create ongoing revenue that would help as the TIF cliff occurred, it would help offset those losses. And so the reduction right now
 I'm sorry Kimberly, I missed a word in there. You said you thought you would use the 600 million what? The 600 million dollar corpus or the 600 million dollars that Tony mentioned, we anticipated using some portion of that for investments similar to the
 convention center hotel garage that would offset and throw off resources that could help offset the decline in tips. So the COVID economic shock has had an unforeseen impact that is even outside of when we've stress tested it.
 So I think we want to put it out there and let you know that we aren't sure yet what the full impact is going to be. But this is something that we are going to be looking at really seriously and will be coming back to our board and to city council with some options as we have more information about what the actual program income decline is. So I think that's where we are right now. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Thank you.
 I don't have questions about the forecast. I have questions and comments about the use of the cannabis tax dollars. So is this the right time to begin? We're happy to take any questions. Our presentation is over. I know we do have Joe Brickman from our community budget committee who is prepared to share her perspective. But we're happy to take any questions that you might have.
 Great. Well, as a commissioner in charge of civic life, which is where the cannabis office is housed, and as someone very committed to restorative justice and very proud of the work that we've done in the cannabis office to advance. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Kimberly's frozen on my screen. So to advance social equity and restorative justice, I have some concerns about how this money will be used. I'm certainly also a big advocate for small business and I want to see as many dollars as possible roll out through our small business relief fund. But this to me feels like
 robbing Peter to pay Paul. The projects we're funding through the cannabis grants are targeted at communities who have just been disproportionately impacted by our past cannabis laws and
 the need for expungement, the need for rental assistance for people coming out of the criminal justice system, none of those things go away because we're in the midst of a crisis and they're all equally important and this is our sole source of funding for those types of efforts.
 Here are my questions. How will the Small Business Relief Fund comply with the funding priorities of the cannabis tax ballot measure? Number one. Thanks, Commissioner. So the tax ballot measure, as I understand it, one of the priorities supports and prioritizes
 support for small businesses from communities and individuals who've been adversely impacted by the prohibition on cannabis and the war on drugs.
 Okay, that's combining it's, it's actually support for small businesses, especially women and minority owned businesses. That's one item. And then it's economic opportunity and education to communities disproportionately impacted by cannabis prohibition, which is really what we have focused on with the cannabis grants.
 Okay, thank you for the clarification. So I think that the Portland Small Business Relief Fund would align with the first of the two in particular by supporting businesses from communities who have been adversely impacted, so Black, Indigenous, people of color, as well as women. We would anticipate that the diversity of recipients would be in line with what we have identified
 seen in the first tranche of investments. So as we showed, 90% of recipients came from communities of color. One of the things that we had talked about internally was to the degree to which we wanted to add a follow-on question about whether people have themselves directly experienced any
 you know, incarceration or any adverse impacts because of cannabis prohibition. I think we have not yet determined whether that would be advisable and we'd want to work with our partners at New Leaf and others to determine how best to reach specific businesses but certainly we would look to City Council for advice on that point.
 Yeah, and I just want to say I was really impressed with Prosper's focus on equity as far as who you got those relief dollars out to initially. I in no way want to suggest that that's not important work or that you're not doing it right. It's just that by allocating all of these dollars to Prosper, it means that some of the more essential restorative justice work that we're funding with these dollars goes away.
 Because we are trying to assist people who aren't ready to become entrepreneurs, who face barriers to entrepreneurship or employment or housing. And I don't believe that all of those dollars should solely be directed towards women and minority-owned businesses.
 If the dollars are entirely allocated to PROSPER, they're going to represent about 40% of the small business relief fund. So will PROSPER commit to awarding a minimum of 40% of the grants to businesses and individuals as defined in the ballot measure language?
 Yes, I mean, we will exceed that if it's in line with what we had just talked about in terms of awarding to individuals.
 Black, Indigenous, people of color and female-owned businesses, I think are, as I mentioned, you know, we, so just by sort of context of the 12,000 people, business owners who applied, more than half were business owners of color, and more than 60% were female entrepreneurs. And so there is a huge number of businesses who applied for these funds who would meet the criteria that have not yet received funding.
 Okay. And my last question is really just for the, my colleagues to consider. You don't have to respond. Again, I support the small business relief fund. I've been hustling to do everything that I can for our small business, our local small businesses. But I, I, I am very uncomfortable with
 allocating all of these dollars for those purposes when we are funding really essential work that needs to be done in the community to repair past farms. So I would just ask that everyone consider whether this is the right allocation of these dollars and consider that we have invested a lot of time and resources here
 into developing this grant program and creating an equitable system for cannabis. That's all. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Harbis. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Commissioner Udeli. For me, I assumed that we were going to
 on a one-time basis, turn over some cannabis tax dollars to prosper so that those dollars would get out of the door immediately, like within the next couple of weeks. I do not support giving all the cannabis tax dollars to prosper because as Kimberly knows, I've been troubled by the fact that
 all the business support pretty much, uh, comes out of cannabis dollars, uh, for businesses that are owned by communities of color and the work that prosper has currently done. I mean, if you talk about the neighborhood prosperity initiative and many of the other programs, they're funded through cannabis tax dollars, and we can debate whether or not these individual businesses have suffered harm from cannabis, uh,
 policy in the past or not, we can have that conversation. But I am not, I do not want all cannabis tax dollars going to POSPR because I think POSPR needs to have more than one source of funding to support organizations led by people of color.
 I was willing to do it on a one-time basis, but I am not willing to do it as an ongoing allocation to Prosper. So I also want to be very clear about that and want to clear up any confusion that I may have caused earlier when we were talking about cannabis tax dollars. And so I appreciate, I know that Prosper has excelled.
 and getting small business relief dollars out because I've been part of that work and I'm very proud to be part of that work. Pre-pandemic,
 I was already having these conversations with Prosper about their over-reliance on the cannabis tax dollars. And so, Kimberly knows this isn't a new conversation. This has been ongoing since I showed up at City Council. And so, again, I would not support having all those tax dollars going to Prosper because, as Commissioner Udeli said, there are real community needs outside of
 of small business support, and we should not be labeling all small businesses owned by people of color as somehow being impacted by cannabis policy. I think we sent a wrong message when that's where our business support comes from. So, thank you. Any further questions at this juncture? Commissioner Fritz.
 So I just have to say what I always say in that it wasn't intended that it would be the particular people who had been impacted by cannabis prohibition, but rather the communities. And so it was never intended that people had to have been personally affected by cannabis prohibition in order to get support.
 But that's why we pay for expungements, because those are people who have actually been impacted by previous poor cannabis policy. That's why we prioritize that. And that's why we prioritize providing job training assistance for people who have directly been convicted of cannabis-related activities. I don't think you can disconnect the two, especially in a city like Portland.
 where it's very easy to see what communities have been radically impacted by policy around marijuana. There's no question about what communities have been harmed and what communities need some help to get through that process, to become ready to start a small business or do anything else.
 And as we saw in the demographics, the people who have received the assistance are from the most impacted communities, which are the Black, Indigenous people, and Latinx communities. One has nothing to do with the other. Thank you, Commissioner. All right. Does that complete your presentation, Director Brannan?
 It does. All right. Very good. So in a moment, we are going to get to public testimony. Before we do that, at the beginning of the meeting, I usually have legal counsel read the rules of decorum. If legal counsel could read those rules now before we get to public testimony. And Carla, that'll give you a couple of minutes to get the list organized. Okay.
 And Mayor, just as a reminder, I think we have Joe Brickman as invited testimony from the Community Budget Committee. Very good. Why don't we do this? Why don't we have legal counsel read the rules of order in the quorum, and then we'll get to Joe. Perfect. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions and the first readings of ordinances. The published council agenda is at portlandoregon.gov slash auditor and it contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the City Council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. I want to tell
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist, and if you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected for the remainder of the electronic meeting. And also, please be aware that the city council meetings are recorded. Very good. Thank you. And Kimberly, is Joe the only invited testimony for today? She is, yes. Thank you. All right. Joe Berkman, you're up.
 Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Joanna Brickman, go by Jo. I'm the deputy director of VirtuLab and the co-chair of the Cross-Report and Community Budget Committee. Thanks for the opportunity to provide brief testimony today on behalf of the 22 volunteers that serve along with me on the committee.
 Our team worked with Prosper Portland staff over the course of the fall and winter to become acquainted with the breadth of Prosper Portland's work, understand the implementation and the trajectory of the agency's strategic plan, review your priorities as mayor, discuss Prosper Portland work plans, scrutinize draft budgets for both the general fund and TIF districts, and to submit our recommendations. And then the world turned upside down.
 Last week, our committee had the opportunity to be debriefed by Prosper Portland staff as to the mayor's proposed budget, ongoing relief and recovery planning efforts, and plans for CARES Act funding. We truly appreciate the proactive steps that have been taken to both speedily respond to the impacts of the pandemic, to plan for recovery, and to thoughtfully reposition the budget.
 Committee members share a common concern about maintaining the core programs that will continue to play a critical role in ensuring the resilience of our communities and the economy. In light of this, we encourage the council to prioritize federal care as resources to ensure these proven and successful programs continue to be supported in their efforts to assist its businesses seeing the greatest impact from COVID-19. Thank you for allowing me to join you today and best of luck.
 Thank you, Joe. And I just have to say I'm completely envious of your little office space. I promise I'm not on a boat. I know it looks like I am. No, it's awesome. It's totally cool. I love it. One of the positive things of the Zoom experience is you sort of get just a little micro look into people's personal lives, their artwork, their plants, sometimes their dog jumps into view.
 I was a little worried that my dogs were going to make an appearance this afternoon. We've seen it all. Trust me, we've seen it all. Roommates unwittingly walking through in various stages of undress. But really cool looking place. And thank you for your leadership and your service. We appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz and then Commissioner Hardesty.
 I'm sorry, I forgot to put my hand down. Oh, no worries. Commissioner Ariski. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you. Where'd she go? Oh, Joe. Joe brought up a question that I think is really pertinent to this conversation. It's the, I guess I'm kind of concerned about how PROSPER, how the Economic Impact Task Force works.
 feeds into some of the decisions that the city council will be faced with. I think I heard Joe say something about investment of Care Act dollars, and the city council, to my knowledge, has not had our work session on setting our priorities about how those dollars will be invested.
 And so it just raised a little warning sign for me about how the work of the task force, which I'm loving, how that work is separate from the work that the city council's deliberation will determine how we invest those dollars. So I just want to make sure there's not a disconnect between what people think.
 we're doing as far as the economic task force work groups and what the reality is about where those decisions will be made. Commissioner, I'm happy to answer that. And actually, just before this presentation, we put together an infographic because we want to make sure that it's very clear. I think verbally, we've been very clear that city council makes determinations regularly
 You know I do it every few weeks, but it scares me because this assumption that this work leads to funding. And I want to be crystal clear that that is not at least my expectation yet. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Understood. So we'll share that and make sure that everybody involved has that information. Great. I'm looking a little freaked out about that question.
 No, not at all. So that completes our invited testimony. Carla, how many people have signed up for public testimony?
 We had 10 people register, but I see we have five on the line. Okay. Well, our next item can't start until 3.30, so let's give them three minutes each. And if you could just call them in their respective order, and we would ask everybody as you come online just to state your name for the record. That'd be super helpful. Thank you. Okay. The first person is David Kress. Good afternoon, David. Hello. Hi.
 Hello, Mayor and Councilmembers. My name is David Kress. I'm one of the producers of the show Shrill and Documentaries Now. Today I'd like to talk to you a bit about the history of the Portland Film Office and what a success that office has been.
 Let me say just to start, a thank you to you and your staffs and the employees of the city and Prosper Portland for the leadership that you're providing in these extraordinary times. We really appreciate it. Thank you. It almost seems in a way trivial,
 to be spending time talking about such a tiny item on the city's overall budget given the circumstances. However, we do think cutting the film office would be an extraordinary mistake and the wrong move especially in light of what's likely going to be tremendous downward pressure on the city and state's economy.
 As a proud Portlander, I've been involved in the Portland film community since long before the Portland Film Office was created. In fact, the last time I appeared before council was in 2002 when the film office was created. I provided some testimony then. Back in 2000, the city council recognized that the film industry could be very beneficial in diversifying our local economies.
 States and cities were competing for the good living wage jobs with health care and retirement benefits the film industry provided. The city wanted the knock-on effect to other businesses and tourism that the film industry could bring. They appreciated that this diverse economic element could be brought to the city with little investment in infrastructure.
 They knew what we needed was a faster response to permitting requests and more coordination between bureaus and regional coordination with the state's divisions, especially the tri-county area where the lion's share of the business was generated. They also conceived that the local indigenous media ecosystem would benefit from the additional equipment and expertise that these large outside productions brought to the city.
 They really had it right. Since 2005, we know we have generated over $1.5 billion of economic activity in the region. All that and the city does not have to pave one road or install one street light for us. The industry has helped shine a bright light on the city's attractions and been a big driver of visitors to the city.
 What's even more important now, in this time of likely recession, that the film and video industry will more than pull its weight by jump-starting some of the industries hit hardest by this pandemic. The Shrill show that I produced alone last year, in season two, spent $350,000 on hotel rooms and restaurants. Our Portland payroll was $5.6 billion, and we spent $240,000 on rental car taxes and parking.
 When drilling down on that, one highlight is we paid the city of Portland $22,000 for permits. We know that if the Portland Film Office is eliminated, the city will still host some shows. But unfortunately, there's still not a practical way to coordinate the film permitting process without people. If the office is eliminated, we know our reputation as a great place to shoot will be degraded.
 I'd also like to point out that the Portland Film Office has been involved and has a role in helping us to create the protocols that will allow us to return to work quickly and safely. We thank Brian Lord for that.
 Every mayor since Beercats has realized there's a need for this office and retained it. Please work with us to find a way to continue this office and its important work. Thank you very much. Thank you, David. And David, I want to personally thank you for all of your contributions and volunteers in the community.
 Appreciate it. Appreciate you being here today. Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fritz, did you have comments on this? No, I failed to put my hand down. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a comment?
 Hey, as you do, I just wanted to say thank you for producing Shrill. It's one of my daughter's favorite shows, and I understand the economic benefit of having the film office. I know that the mayor does too, and I'll be looking forward to discussing what the plans are for continuing to support the film industry. Thank you, David. Appreciate it. Carla, next individual, please. Next is Lisa Cicala. Welcome, Lisa. Thank you.
 So my name is Lisa Chakala and I am the Executive Director of the Oregon Media Production Association and I'm testifying today as well on the behalf of the Portland Film Office, which was not included in the proposed budget. OMPA represents the working professionals in the film, television, commercial, and immersive media industry and these professionals represent everyone from producers and writers to construction workers and caterers.
 In 2002, our organization was instrumental in helping to establish the Portland Film Office because, as David said, the industry recognized that that's what was needed in order to attract more production to the city, and it has paid off.
 Since then, the membership in our organization has grown seven times to over 2,000 members, indicating that there are many more professionals working living wage jobs in this industry today. This growth in jobs did not happen by accident, but rather is due to consistent support from our city's leaders to ensure that Portland is a film friendly city. And this reputation is due in large part to the Portland Film Office.
 productions and producers like producing their work in Portland, which means that the same companies bring multiple projects back to the city over several years. And we just cannot afford to go backwards and lose the investment the city's made that has gotten us to where we are today.
 I spoke to one of the small businesses that works in our industry, Mundo Catering, and just after the pandemic shut down production. They're a husband and wife, minority-owned business, who are the caterers of choice for many of the shows that shoot here in Portland. The majority of their business comes from serving film and television production, so when the pandemic hit, they lost all of their work.
 Sarah and Javier told me that food businesses run with so much overhead and such slim profit margins anyway that this absolutely decimated us. Sadly, that happened at a time when they welcomed a baby just two weeks ago. Their business depends on productions choosing to film in Portland and productions choose to film in Portland because they have good experiences here due to the Portland Film Office. And Mundo Catering just can't afford to see productions go elsewhere to cities that are recognized as more welcoming to film and television. Thank you.
 Another member of OMPA, Kerner Camera, provides cameras and lenses to the major productions that come to town. And while yes, Michael Kerner's business and his employees depend on those productions choosing Portland, the entire industry benefits from that business. Because of a consistent, reliable workflow, they are then able to generously provide high-end camera gear to independent filmmakers and artists to tell their stories.
 They're able to provide mentorship to help elevate more diverse workforce via the Oregon Media Pathways Program. They're able to offer scholarships and internships to PSU students. And they're able to support local film festivals that elevate artists and ultimately draw tourism dollars to the city.
 So when productions come to Portland, students, artists, and people of color also have more opportunities. We can't take for granted what we've built up here over the years. There are no guarantees that production will continue to spend money here and create jobs in this city unless we protect what we've built
 I ask that you not shut down the Portland Film Office in just over a month's time, that you consider alternatives. It's a small but mighty office that has a large impact on our industry's ability to support high quality, huge jobs, and put money directly into businesses across the city and aid in its economic recovery. Thank you and thank you for your leadership during these challenging times. Thank you, Lisa. Appreciate your testimony. Next is C. David Cottrill. Welcome.
 Hello, everyone. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am C. David Paltrow. I'm a property master by trade in the home and TV business. I'm also the business agent for IATSE Local 488 for the studio mechanics of the Pacific Northwest. Thank you for allowing me to testify in support of maintaining funding for the Portland Film Office. And thank you also for the important work that you're doing right now to make Portland, keep Portland a great place to work and to live.
 IOTC 488 represents the crew working behind the camera on movies, TV, streaming projects, commercials, and other film and digital media projects. Our members work in 19 different crafts, including production and office accountants, construction and paint, props and set dressing, hair and makeup, medics, and more. Our members literally manufacture entertainment for the world. Our jurisdiction covers Oregon, Washington, Montana, and Idaho. Our equipment crew base is currently 261 people.
 In the Portland Metro and Vancouver area, we have a total of 341 members. IATSE Local 600, the camera crew, has 75 members. SAG-AFTRA has over 1,000 actors as members. Directors Guild has over 40 members. And the Teamsters have 115 members working locally in our industry.
 As our union work has grown over the past decade, so too has the larger freelance crew base. This group of people includes non-union folks who work alongside our union members on non-union projects in motion picture, stop motion animation, commercial advertising, independent film, and other digital media. These are solid family wage jobs with benefits for the citizens of Portland and the citizens of Oregon.
 We understand deeply the financial crisis we face as a city, state, and nation. Our media industry itself suffered a complete shutdown as of March 13th, canceling or postponing thousands of workdays scheduled for projects already in production. In addition, the shutdown has meant the postponement of multiple large projects planned to be here for the end of the year. However, with the national demand for streaming content, we know that once it is safe to do so, we will be back to work on those projects in a minute, and others will be coming, other projects will be coming to Portland.
 Shutting down the Portland Film Office now will severely hamper our ability to jumpstart our industry. To give you a little bit of a lens on the damage that would be done, here are some projects which would not have been fully realized without the participation of the Portland Film Office. As the city's liaison between its bureaus and our industry, the Portland Film Office effectively uses its limited resources to support both individual projects as well as other important pieces of our ecosystem.
 To name a few, the Portland Film Office has been an active collaborator with OMPA, Oregon Film, and the unions and guilds in developing the following. The Oregon Media Pathways Program, which is our equity and inclusion-based workforce development project. Portland Film Office also established a working group made up of industry professionals, local colleges, and community groups to enhance education and training programs for the next generation of Portland media makers. The film office helps fund
 safety on set events and trainings open to the entire digital media industry and most recently the Portland Film Office has been instrumental in working with industry partners to establish our regional and state COVID-19 protocols for our industry to safely return to work. There will be much planning and training necessary for our industry's restart
 I hope our testimony and the 2,800 responses to the petition that we put online demonstrate that we have a media industry community and a community at large that needs the city of Portland as a stakeholder in our industry now more than ever. And for our ecosystem to successfully revive and thrive, we need the Portland Film Office by our side. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Sorry here. Next is Michael Martin. Welcome, Michael.
 Okay. Okay. You there? Yep. We hear you loud and clear. Right. If I may decline at this time and give my spot to the next. Certainly. Carl, the next individual, please. Next is Tim Williams. Tim Williams.
 Hi there. My name is Tim Williams. I'm the executive director of Oregon Film, the state film and media office, and I'm testifying today again also on behalf of the Portland Film Office. Thank you for having me and thank you for all that you do and Prosper Portland do for this city during this really hard time. It is much appreciated by all of us. The film, television and media industry in this state has been steadily growing for the past 20 years and the Portland Film Office has been an integral part of that growth.
 For the 2017-2019 biennium, we tracked $280 million of direct spending impacting 4,000 jobs per year. During this current fiscal year, we're tracking about $150 million of direct spending impacting 3,000 jobs over 42 different projects. At least 30 of those projects equating to $135 million of local spending are based and shot in the Portland metro area.
 This industry is going to return quickly and safely, providing a very high rate of local employment, spending on local vendors, and providing notoriety and tourism for the city in the long term. At least three television series are in line to restart production in Portland later this summer, as and when procedures and protocols are put in place to make them do that safely. There are more productions waiting.
 This industry will be the leading edge of recovery, just as it has been the only source of content that literally everyone is consuming right now. It will thrive. This was clearly shown during the last recession. Each of these productions utilizes a wide range of local vendors, including hard-hit areas like hotels, restaurants, and small businesses, and the Portland Film Office in an additive measure for Prosper Portland's COVID-19 response. A place where Prosper's Small Business Relief Fund will be amplified many times over by just one production.
 By way of example, the second season of the Netflix series Trinkets spent $100,000 just on travel booked through a local travel company, $140,000 in catering costs from a local caterer, and $32,000 paid directly to the city of Portland. While the feature film Timmy Failure spent $4 million in the city employing more than 400 people in just over a month of shooting.
 While I acknowledge that the budget note about the film office put in place two years ago, completely, while I acknowledge the budget note put in place two years ago, completely closing down the film office now during a budget note from two years ago doesn't make sense from a mission or economic perspective right now. We're now operating in a very different reality and we need to be finding constructive and creative solutions to preserve this work and momentum. I am working through these same issues with my office on the state level.
 Without the Portland Film Office, Portland becomes a more difficult place for local and outside producers to produce work. What is now a three-day turnaround for city property uses will turn into a much less workable process. Productions and producers track this and make decisions based on ease of use and processes that make HD of day filming easier and safer to arrange.
 The film office is also a very valued community partner, as you've heard. Our work together has included providing numerous grants for local productions to finish their projects here in Portland, as well as specific equitable and diverse workforce development and job opportunity creation on the sets and in the studios producing work here in the city.
 In short, this office of one person has made Portland the place to produce creative content here in the Northwest United States. And I ask you, please don't eliminate this small but highly effective office that does so much for the community, the industry, and the city here in Portland. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony.
 Commissioner Hardisky and then Commissioner Udato. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Tim, for your testimony. So here's my question. I can still say I'm the new kid on the block until somebody else shows up on the Portland City Council. When I first arrived, I was under the impression that last year the office was going to figure out how to self-fund itself.
 My colleague, Nick Fish, advocated venomously that we give you one more year, give the office one more year to be able to identify that funding. I'm a little offended that we're being told that we're shutting down the office. And in fact, we're not shutting down the office. There's no one on the city council that doesn't think the office is critical. But I...
 I have to ask, what have you done, Tim, to help identify additional funding resources so that that office could be maintained without being dependent on very precious general fund dollars? Sure.
 Any response to that? Oh, sorry. I didn't know if I was unmuted. My apologies. Commissioner Hardesty, yes. I believe that was the intention. I think with Commissioner Fish's passing, we lost somebody that we were working very closely with on the inside of city council. And I know Brian Lord, who runs the film office, was trying very hard to find ways to put in place
 full financing of that. And maybe that is, you know, the next step is how do we find a way to make this a hundred percent financing. But I think both the current crisis we are in, as well as commissioner fish's passing has made it a little bit harder for that equation to sort of be met in the timeframe that we wanted it to be met on. And I fully acknowledge that that was the intention for sure. Thank you. Thank you. I'll commission you daily.
 Thank you, Mayor. I want to thank everyone for coming to testify on behalf of the film office. This is a conversation that I'm also very interested in. When I had BDS, I was interested in creating a film music and festival office. I don't have BDS any longer, but I do have PBOT, which interacts with your industry quite a bit.
 Unfortunately, my PBOT liaison is out sick today, so I haven't been able to get timely information back during this conversation. But I have a vague recollection that there was conversation about increasing those permit fees to make the office self-funding. And I believe that the conclusion was that
 those permits might become cost prohibitive, but I'm going to have to follow up with staff on that to see where we're at. We certainly don't want to lose your industry. We appreciate everything you bring to Portland and it's, you know, you're another critical piece of our overall arts and creative economy. So thank you. Thank you.
 Next, Carla, please. The next person is Ahmad Santos. Welcome, Ahmad. Hello. I can be heard, yes? Yep, loud and clear.
 Perfect. So, I mean, I just really am adding to what a lot of other people have already said, which is that our industry draws from so many other industries in this town, in this city. And so I feel like shutting us down or keeping us at a point where we're not able to operate efficiently is really at a detriment to everyone's growth. Because even just within my team, I work costumes. And even just within our team, we're always seeking out local designers, like,
 exposing, you know, new lines, new people who are starting businesses and helping them grow even further beyond just the means of Portland. So therefore, I feel like our industry just brings so much attention to Portland and allows us to grow as a city and not just within our own industry. And that's pretty much all I have to add. Thank you, Aman. Appreciate your testimony.
 I believe that's all unless Michael Martin was going to speak. He seemed to have declined. Yeah, Michael, did you want to speak or are you good to go? He may have signed off. All right, very good. As you know, we're not taking a vote today. Anything else before we move this on, colleagues? Commissioner Hart, I see your hand, but I think that was left up from last time. That is correct. My apologies. Very good. All right.
 This meeting of the Prosper Portland Budget Committee now adjourns, but we will reconvene on May 20th, 2020 to take action and approve the Prosper Portland budget. I'd like to thank Director Branham, Lisa Abouaf, and of course, Chair Kruse for all of your great leadership and for giving us this presentation today. Thanks to you and your entire team.
 Thank you Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. We will take a brief recess. We will reconvene at 3 30 for the time certain item. We're in recess. Thank you. Bye-bye. All right we're back in session. It looks like everybody's on board. Carla can you please read time certain item 373.
 Authorize $548,094 total in grant funds for the 2020 Cannabis Social Equity Grant Program in the Office of Community and Civic Life. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, everyone. As the Commissioner in Charge of the Office of Community and Civic Life, it's a pleasure to introduce this year's recommendations for the 2020 Cannabis Social Equity Grants.
 This is the second year of Civic Life's Social Equity Grant Program, and I'm pleased to see how the program has evolved over the past couple years. Portland is one of the first jurisdictions with a legal cannabis market to allocate our revenue to restorative justice, and our program serves as a model for the rest of the country, and I'm really proud of it.
 I'm looking forward to reviewing these projects today. And now I'm going to turn it over to Kimye Ulioka and Michael Montoya and Christina Corsi from Civic Life to present on the Cannabis Social Equity Grants. Welcome, everyone. Nice to see your faces. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. Good afternoon, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners, and thank you, Mayor. It seems that thank yous aren't quite enough. It is truly a thankless job, the sacrifices that you have to make of your time, energy, and commitment, although it probably doesn't feel that way because you are so dedicated. I just want to personally thank you, as others have today. My name is Michael Montoya. I am the Strategy, Innovation, and Performance Manager for the Bureau of Community and Civic Life.
 I also want to thank Christina Corsi and Kimi Iwoka, our staff in the Cannabis Program, for their heroics to stand this grant process up this year. And you'll be hearing from them in a minute. We are here today to briefly present work and lessons from years one and two of the grant program and to request approval on the recommended projects and programs for year three. Thank you.
 We hope that we can return at a later date to fully present and celebrate the work of the grant-funded projects and partner organizations. As you know, state and national statistics show that enforcement of cannabis laws has been experienced disproportionately by our communities of color and, to a greater extent, by our Black and Indigenous communities.
 For the past 80 years, social and political pressures intensified the criminalization of cannabis and led to regulatory policies that were often rooted in fear and in racism. These policies have had devastating legal, social, and economic impacts for many individuals and their families and have added to intergenerational harm experienced by our communities of color.
 This grant program recognizes the damages caused by cannabis prohibition and the restorative justice potential of legalization. As stated in the funding announcement, these funds are meant to repair harm, restore justice, and create pathways to wealth and power for communities that have borne the brunt of unjust cannabis laws. I will now hand it off to Kimie Uwaka.
 Thank you, and I apologize. I'm going to share my screen. We have a PowerPoint that goes along with this. Hold on just one moment, please. Hello, my name is Kimie Ueoka. I am the Policy and Grants Coordinator for the City's Cannabis Program. I'm going to share a bit about the last two cycles and this year's grantmaking.
 When Portland voters approved ballot measure 26-180 by nearly 80%, they intended for funds to be put towards targeted reinvestment, specifically in communities who've been disproportionately impacted by cannabis prohibition. This grant program speaks directly to that intention.
 To date, nearly $1 million has been distributed through these grants. The fund has supported 34 community expungement clinics, over 2,000 legal analyses for expungement, and more than 270 Portlanders have received specialized workforce training and career development support free of charge. All programs, apart from Metropolitan Public Defender Services, reported that 70 to 90% of their participants are from our grant priority communities.
 And although MPD's percentage is below that, closer to 40%, they alone have served more than 10 times the number of individuals identifying as Black, Indigenous, or persons of color than any of the other grantees. I need to note that these numbers do not include grants administered by PROSPER or the final numbers for our Year 2 grants, which are going now and will end next month, all of whom are continuing to serve to the best of their abilities during the COVID-19 crisis.
 In year three, the grant and priority funding areas were informed by stakeholder engagement through the Cannabis Programs Advisory Body, the Cannabis Policy Oversight Team, and stakeholder feedback from year two listening sessions, year two grant applicants, year three cannabis community talks, information from city, regional, and national efforts in criminal justice reform and community economic development.
 This graphic shows a timeline of this year's grant making process. We started our conversations with the community in late October. The grant application period opened in mid-December and we had four information sessions out in different sectors of the City of Portland. The funding announcement closed at the end of January and then the review panelists began their individual review
 review and scoring. As you can see, the COVID-19 crisis emerged right at the mid to tail end of the independent review and we have spent the second half of the grant making process responding and supporting our panelists and responding to that crisis.
 In year three, this cycle, we received 31 applications asking for close to $3 million in need. Since assuming responsibility for this grant, Civic Life has seen the number of applicants increase from 9 to 30. After last cycle, adjustments were made to grantmaking and community engagement to encourage a more proportionate pool of applicants. This year, we saw increases in applications across all funding areas except workforce development.
 Grant applications were reviewed independently and collaboratively by a community majority review panel. The review panel is made of seven individuals. Five appointed by you, commissioners, one cannabis advisory body member, and one city staff with funding area expertise.
 Since assuming administration of this grant, we have worked to ensure that the composition of the review panel is reflective of both the grant's priority funding areas and the service communities. This cycle, one panelist was forced to withdraw just before the collaborative scoring meeting due to personal reasons related to COVID-19.
 As we managed our own challenges presented by COVID, we were also acutely aware of the impact that this was likely having and would continue to have on our reviewers.
 and our current and future grantees. Our first step was to reach out to staff, panelists, awardees, applicants, and our own advisory group to better understand the impact that COVID-19 was having on them and ask them for guidance. Based on their feedback, we decided to move forward with the grant making process.
 At the review panel's online meeting, rather than jump right into scoring, we started the meeting by first asking the panel for guidance around this fundamental question. How should this grant fund respond to the current crisis? The panel discussed a variety of options for recommendation. They considered narrowing the priority areas in order to focus on a single area, and even considered dividing the funds equally amongst all the applicants and recommending that 100% go towards general operating costs.
 It was a lengthy and difficult conversation for the panel. Ultimately, the group decided to distribute funds across the funding areas to fund both small emerging community programs and to support their survival and ability to serve, but also fund larger, more established programs that would be more likely to get funds and services out into the community quickly.
 They also accepted that they have a limited amount of information and that the funding landscape and the economy was likely to shift rapidly. They accepted that the scope of these projects and the capacity of these organizations was likely to change, and that they recommended the city offer awardees the maximum amount of flexibility possible so that they can respond to immediate community needs. The panel was also asked to consider these other questions in relationship to the current crisis.
 Good afternoon. My name is Christina Corsi. I am the interim supervisor and the licensing coordinator of the cannabis program. Exhibit A of our council package includes a brief summary of each of the recommended projects. We are asking council for approval to move forward with generating grant agreements for these proposed projects. I'd like to share a few of the panel's recommendations for these proposals.
 Social Justice Program Beyond Black. Beyond Black is a small community-based organization with important geographic placement for community members in East Portland. This project focuses on building community engagement, policy awareness, and social justice. The advocacy portion of this grant was well-designed. The project plans to tackle an important community-led discussion around cannabis policy and equity.
 MNCCA program, Latino Network. The MNCCA program uses a proven model for full youth and family wraparound services to address youth gang involvement. This program has a valuable combination of direct services and advocacy to support and empower families. The program offers a strong leadership development opportunities and support for participants.
 Building Economic Power for Day Laborers, BAS Workers' Rights Education Project. This program provides workforce development and education for a high-need community that is unlikely to have access to federal emergency support programs. The program was developed through a strong model of participant-led organizational and program development. This program is a Year 2 grant recipient.
 Construction Pre-Apprenticeship Program for Communities of Color and Low-Income Young Adults. The Construction Pre-Apprenticeship Program application gave thorough information about how the program participants, who it serves, and community and individual level impact of the program so far. They also provided clear information about the existing need in the community for this program. This program is also a year one and year two grant recipient.
 Housing Support for Justice Involved Portlanders Pursuing Middle Income Careers Housing Support for Justice Involved Portlanders will provide emergency housing assistance funds for individuals exiting incarceration. The program provides integrated housing and employment services.
 75% of program participants will be from Black, Indigenous, and communities of color. 90% of requested funds will be going directly to rent assistance. Portland Community College Community Legal and Educational Access and Referral Clinic, PCC Clear Clinic.
 PCC Clear Clinic will be based in North Portland and will host free legal clinics offering a variety of needed legal supports and services, including civil, immigration, housing, and expungement legal support. The program's relationship within PCC creates direct access to an extensive network of students, volunteers, resources, and wraparound support services for participants.
 The program will also include direct pathways to educational opportunities, and this program will also provide civic engagement and criminal justice reform experience for PCC legal students.
 Today the Office of Community and Civic Life is requesting Council approval to use $548,094 from fiscal year 1920 available grant funds to create grant agreements for these six projects. With the understanding that the economic landscape and community needs are shifting and intensifying daily and this program intends to do what we can to be responsive through grant making.
 If we are able to receive funding to continue this work in the next fiscal year, there are some things we would like to improve upon. We would like to continue to improve grant design and grant making process, improve the understanding of impact of cannabis criminalization on participants, boost visibility of the fund and work of grantees, and expand internal and external relationships and community engagement.
 The end of cannabis prohibition is a rare opportunity with great potential to be reparative. Each cycle we learn from the community what's working and what's not, and we grow from this. I am excited to be part of this grant program and to partner with the communities we serve to help realize this potential. We thank you, Commissioners and Mayor, for your time, and we'd be happy to address any questions that you might have. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 And thank you both for that presentation. I don't know if I should address this to Kimmy or to Christina. I have some very specific questions about some of the individual grants that I hope you'll be able to answer. So the first one was Beyond Black, and you said they were going to host a series of community meetings around what you said something about a community meeting around cannabis
 impacts. Could you tell me a little bit more about that? Who are these people? You said they're in East Portland. Is this a 501c3 organization? Is this a brand new organization? I know nothing about them.
 It's a young nonprofit organization that has just been over the past year or two gaining more of a foothold in outer East Portland. So they're right on the border of Gresham and Portland. They're serving a lot of community members who have been pushed out to Far East. And what they originally had proposed was a much larger and kind of
 two-faceted, multifaceted program that would include more direct assistance with reentry, but the panel, the review panel, really thought that the more well-designed
 formed and ready to deliver piece of their work was around the policy advocacy and community engagement. So part of a, so what was offered to them and they were invited to
 to do through this grant was to flesh out and do the project around focusing on that piece around building community awareness and also building community knowledge of,
 how to access and get involved in political processes, as well as also exploring with the community as part of that cannabis policy and equity as it relates to reinvestment of the cannabis funds.
 My second question has to do with Work Systems, Inc., which is the workforce development entity in the region, which gets significant money to work with the populations that we are about to give them grants to work with.
 I'm just wondering, out of all the opportunities we had, why that one rose to the top for a significant level of funding, just knowing what their resources are that they already have access to. And if you compare them to Beyond Black, right, it's like one has access to a multitude of resources and one probably has access to almost no resources. And so it seems a very bizarre mix.
 Yeah, the review panel, first of all, I have to say that the review panel met on April 2nd. On April 2nd, the landscape was shifting even more quickly than it is now, as far as what was going to be available, what money was going to be going out, to who, at both the local and federal level. So there's that piece to their decision making.
 So I'll start with the work systems. The thinking around work systems was that work systems is established and has mechanisms in place and was asking in their proposal for the lion's share of the money to go directly to rent assistance. That they were only asking for the
 the amount allowable for admin and overhead, and that $130,000 of what they were asking for was going to directly go to rent assistance. So, um... Excuse me, did they have a history of doing direct rental assistance with populations like folks coming back from incarceration?
 Because I don't think they have a good success record at that based on information that I know about what they are, what the community perceives them to be experts at and what they perceive them to get money for, but not necessarily have the kind of outcome. So I don't expect you to know. But if you have some analysis around
 whether or not they're effective, right? I mean, it's one thing to say, because I would think that POIC, I would think Constructing Hope would be two organizations that had a more direct relationship with that population than, say, Work Systems Inc. So I was just, it just seemed bizarre to me. So looking forward to your response. Yeah.
 I can speak to that a little. Yes, they have had ongoing rental assistant programs for people coming out of incarceration. And what they found was that
 the short-term assistance typically available to people coming out of the system did not allow them to complete the programs that they were in and led to a significantly lower success rate for those individuals who lost that support. So my understanding is it's really targeted at
 funding the gap between the length of temporary assistance typically available and the length of those programs that get people workforce training and up and ready to go out and find their own housing. That's my understanding.
 I guess my biggest concern is they get all the federal workforce dollars to address that population. So my concern is putting it all in one pot. I mean, they already get all the federal dollars and any regional dollars that come in.
 And unless they made a compelling argument, and of course I've seen none of the grants, that somehow giving them over $100,000 is going to make them more effective with that population, I would just be very concerned. I don't know that any of the other grant applications were for rental assistance for justice-involved individuals. I can't speak to that. I can say that...
 although it sounds like one pot, they have struggled on an ongoing basis to find money for that supplemental rental assistance that I was referring to. So even though they may be getting the lion's share of federal dollars, those dollars apparently are not adequate to, to cover the needed rental assistance.
 Thank you all for those responses. I admire the work that you did. I appreciate the shift that had to happen after the pandemic hit.
 And if possible, I know that today is the first reading or are we accepting a report? I'm not, I'm- First reading. First reading. I would be very interested in actually reading the proposals that you're recommending we fund, because I know in this venue, we are not gonna be able to get the totality of the picture and I don't wanna waste time asking a lot of questions that I could answer for myself if I read the proposal. So thank you.
 If I might say, we are in the process right now of working with these six applicants to make immediate adjustments to what was originally proposed, given that those proposals were written way back.
 prior to COVID. And so we're working with them as we speak and all of our year two grantees as well in order to make sure that what they're asking for and what they're proposing is responsive as they identify it to what the community they're working with needs most. Thanks, Kimmy. Very good. Any further questions before we move into public testimony?
 Great. Excellent presentation. Good conversation. Carla, do we have people signed up for public testimony? No one signed up, Mayor. Nobody signed up. All right. Anything else for the good of the order? Thank you all. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading and we are adjourned.