Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the May 19th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We're going to move to our four-fifths agenda item, number 527-1 and 527-2.
 By 27-1, adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update of Portland's comprehensive plan. Accept report of the Citizen Involvement Committee.
 and 527-2 adopt a new comprehensive plan for the City of Portland, Oregon. Okay, so we have a couple of items to deal with here in particular, and I have some points I need to get into the record about one of them. Last Thursday, Council reaffirmed a decision made the previous day for Comp Plan Map Amendment No. 5, S.R.S. 12, which addresses property at Southeast 17th and Inslee. Prior to our original vote on May 11th,
 Council asked for the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation in order to inform our decision-making process. BPS staff incorrectly replied that R1 was the designation that would have applied, when in fact the recommendation was a combination of R1 and R2.5. The next day, BPS staff provided a correction, and Council reaffirmed the earlier vote to deny the requested amendment to apply RH to the property.
 After speaking with Council offices following the vote on May 11th, I learned that some of us voted based on an understanding that a vote consistent with the PSC would not render any properties non-conforming. This is not the case. Applying R2.5 in the two-block area subject to this amendment would result in four properties becoming non-conforming based on what is built and there today, or in one case, what is currently under permit to be built.
 To acknowledge and address this misunderstanding, staff would like to bring this item back before the City Council to provide clarification and call for another vote. So you want to deal with that first? I was going to do that second. And deal with Metro first? Okay. And so Andy Shaw is here from Metro. Great. Thank you for having me, Andy Shaw with Metro. We're happy you're taking this up today. Thanks for taking the time both last week and this week. I know you're very busy. Thank you.
 The voters in our region have twice passed bond measures to direct Metro to acquire critical habitat, to protect water quality, and to create meaningful access to nature for our citizens. For the past two decades, we've kept our eyes squarely on those goals. The Metro Council and our citizen oversight are responsible for managing that program and making sure that we're achieving those goals.
 We acquire land through a willing seller program, and that can make it quite challenging often to obtain the target areas that we're trying to obtain. Frequently when we buy land, we've got to buy a larger parcel than what we need. The Springwater Corridor is a good example of that. We purchased parcels along there to obtain key right-of-way on the Springwater Trail and had to buy larger parcels later.
 along the way in order to obtain that right-of-way. We don't intend to keep those larger parcels. They're zoned, in many cases, residential. We intend to sell those and to use the proceeds from those properties to put back in the program to ensure we're achieving the voters' goals, which is obtaining as much water quality land, habitat land, and other critical trails, and improving the parks that we've purchased so people can access them. Thank you.
 In some other cases, down by Selwood, we've purchased land where we have upland habitat and we've got floodplain habitat. Both are important, but the upland habitat may not be as critical as our ability to purchase additional waterfront land.
 land. And if we can trade that land with others or we can sell that land in order to purchase their land, that will further, we think, the goals of our program. Downzoning our properties lowers the value of those properties and limits our ability to make those kinds of trades or sales in the interest of obtaining as much land as possible for water protection, water quality protection, and habitat protection. So we're asking you...
 help me again here Joe we're asking on met to adopt 55 the Metro is asking that the items and number 55 that we discussed those properties last time that the City Council does not change the designation to open space as recommended in the mayor's letter
 And then Metro is asking for reconsideration of Amendment M54, which you all voted on in the first work session. And that's the amendment that designated the parcels along the Springwater Corridor to open space. So those are the two actions that are relevant here. You are continuing the discussion of Item 55, so there's no change there. It's just how you vote on it.
 If we're sympathetic to Metro's position, we would vote no on 55? You would vote no on the motion, which is to adopt the change of zoning in the mayor's letter, yes. Right, which is 55. Yes. Right. No on 55. Yes, no on 55 and reconsider 54. Okay.
 And to be clear, the properties that are subject to this discussion are listed on a sheet that we passed out that was transcribed from the Metro letter. You have another copy of that. For some reason, I'll look at Dan's again. Well, I am – Thank you. I don't know if we're at the deliberation point, but I am persuaded by Metro's arguments. They are an elected board. They are responsible to voters for managing open spaces and their parks and recreation areas. Yes.
 and it makes sense that when you have to buy a piece of property, when you only need a trail right away, there should be another way to flexibility for Metro to maximize the value of that remaining property, especially if the proceeds are going back into open space and natural area preservation. So I would...
 Do I need to make a motion? We'll take a motion unless there's any other questions for Andy. I have another question for Andy. Andy, one of the reasons why I'm reticent about this is just in the abstract, I agree with what Commissioner Salzman just said, at least in some situations, but when you're talking about a piece of riverfront land next to Selwood Riverfront Park, and when you're talking about Mitchell Creek Natural Area, you know, Vano Creek Natural Area area,
 when a public agency, a parks agency, and that's how Metro is certainly perceived in this situation, buys a piece of property with voter-approved parks and open space funding, dissonant, to say the least, to zone that for development. Because we're supposed to zone the land based on its intended use. And I think most reasonable people, who maybe aren't
 following all these machinations would probably expect to rest easy at having voted for the Metro green spaces measure and having seen Metro buy this critical piece of vulnerable property that they don't have to worry about it getting developed. That's a great question. I had to explain this to my wife, actually, and it took a little while. Try to work with her and then try it on us. Did you persuade her? Yes, in the end, yes. Okay.
 So if you look at Mitchell Creek area, we own a very large portion of property there. Some of it's roadfront property. That roadfront property does not necessarily have great habitat value. There's further creek land to both the east and west that we would love to obtain in the program. And if it took –
 a trade of some sort to do that or if we could sell off a property and purchase that property that will further our goals of protecting that watershed area and it won't hurt harm the goals the voters asked us to go achieve because that road front area could serve a different purpose that does not actually protect the creek i'm down on this on the waterfront uh near selwood off that one though i'd like to point out that
 I appreciate you raising the issue of the parks property that's in the middle there. In review from my staff, this was a mistake, and parks would like that to be zoned open space. We do not support the – we'd like a change from the Planning Commission recommendation. And when you look at where the creek is, certainly it seems to me that zoning the whole thing for development is completely unwarranted. Okay.
 So our scientists look at each of these areas and parcels in each instance, and we bring any action through our citizen oversight committee into the Metro Council for an action.
 We have a number of instances where we've bought a parcel, we have determined that one portion does not provide very good habitat value but could return value resources back into the program. It's been a common practice for us to do this. We're not saying we're going to develop that area. We're saying we want the flexibility in this program to not have the value of the property diminished significantly.
 Well, with all due respect, there's several property owners who have come into this council and asked that, including the David Douglas School District and also individual property owners. And the council has looked at the staff's research into the value of the property, and as the mayor said, the hoped use for the property. And in every case, we've said, thank you for your input, but in fact, we believe it should be a lower intensity designation. So I don't understand why Metro should be given more deference to...
 especially when it's been purchased with open space money, this particular property, I would imagine that the neighbors around there would be outraged. In every instance when we master plan a park, we work with neighbors. We work with the local folks to figure out what's the best use of that space. And we have a very good track record of involving folks in our processes. We haven't done master plans for a lot of these areas, so questions remain to be answered. And we would like the flexibility going forward to make those decisions via the Metro Council.
 They were purchased with green spaces bond measure for natural areas. So on that particular property, what is the purpose that's in line with the green spaces bond measure to develop any of this property? Sure.
 If you look back to the picture, the photograph, the aerial photograph, it's completely wooded. So what our scientists tell us is the main purpose there is to protect that watershed, to protect that creek, and we would go in and look what areas are critical to reaching that goal. And if there was a portion that wasn't needed to achieve that goal, and we could sell that off or we could trade it and we could use those resources or that land in trade to obtain
 larger portions of the creek, then we can actually have more of an impact on water quality protection and habitat protection doing that. All we're asking for is to retain the current zoning so we can maintain that flexibility. One technical thing that I'd like to add just along that line is –
 Portland does have transfer of development rights in its code, so there is an aspect of this that could theoretically relate to that without actually development having to happen on the site, and that is one aspect of their request. Why should we do that for Metro when we haven't done it for other property owners? Yeah.
 I'm not going to – I think this really calls into question the defensibility of the entire plan at the Land Conservation Development Commission. It's based on the research, the scientific research, of what's the appropriate use of the land. I'm not recommending you do that. I just wanted that fact to be known in the right way. Eric, can I ask just a couple questions? This is to staff. Metro says they would like to have more flexibility. I can understand that, particularly if it's a trade and it ends up being a net plus.
 The question of whether any action they take is faithful to whatever they promised the voters, it seems to me, is outside of our purview. So what's left for us to consider? The basic question here is what is the base land use designation going to be? And I think the issue revolves around the fact that that does affect land value.
 So the base designation on the property gives some certainty to all the folks around as well as the property owners to what's allowed. So that's sort of the issue. Regardless of a property owner's actual use of a site, the zoning and the comp plan give you a longer-term certainty. So if we vote yes on this, what is their recourse if at some point in the future they want to revisit this question?
 Well, the comp plan is not a static document for 25 years, so you do have the ability to change it if new information comes up. There is also recourse to any property owner in terms of appeals to the plan on a specific property or a larger issue.
 But isn't there a policy that we don't rezone open space? So we wouldn't – if we designated open space in the comp plan, we're not likely to change that. We did at Colwood. Well, I know we did at Colwood. Yeah, you've – it isn't off the table to rezone open space depending on the facts. Can you show us the riverfront property, please? Because I interrupted you. I'm sorry. That's okay. Go ahead with your – Can I just finish my last question, Wiscott? Sure, go ahead. Thank you. Okay.
 Do you have ñ I want to make sure there's ñ the document we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight different properties. Do you have a different position on each one in terms of recommendation? MR. We've noted on a couple of the properties that the comp plan didn't propose a change, so that's one technical thing that we just want to sort out.
 The staff's recommendation going into this was support for the council's action of open space based on earlier support from the Planning Commission on some of this. Okay. So, Commissioner Fritz, you want to go ahead and talk about Selwood? Yes. Was there a specific question? What possible development could happen there that would not be detrimental to the open space? So, again, with this program, we're not developing any land. We are trying to – I was asking what a scenario would be.
 Well, one scenario would be that we could trade the upland habitat to somebody. We could sell that upland habitat if that allowed us to obtain more riverfront property. The floodplain is the target here for us. Protecting that area from development is the target.
 So if there was an organization that cared for upland habitat, we could trade it at a high value to them and use that as a way to obtain riverfront property. If there was development going on at the adjacent parking lot area and that allowed us to obtain riverfront access, that would be a high priority for the program.
 I think, do you have the overlay on now that shows the... Yeah, I just put up the map that shows the natural resource inventory, and I believe the purple is the floodplain portion. We've worked in partnership with the city on the Johnson Creek area and other parks. I think there's...
 It's tricky often on a willing seller program to obtain some of these critical properties. And sometimes it's taken trades through third-party organizations that are land trusts. These can be complicated deals. If we have to go through a rezoning process, that could make it impossible to make the kinds of movements that we need to make. Again, all we're asking for is the ability for this program to have the flexibility to make the choices that we want to make and achieve the best possible outcomes.
 the voters will, which is getting the most critical habitat, protecting it, and creating links for these key regional trails that we've all planned and made a priority. All right. Further questions for Andy? Anything else that you want to cover? I think that's it. Thank you. Thank you very much. So
 don't know if we want to discuss this much before we make a motion but I believe we have to take action here one way or another so I'm gonna move amendment 55 which makes this package of changes right do I get that right Eric yeah the motion that we had originally written was to
 to take open space off of those properties. So that would be the motion. Oh, all right. So open space has already been applied? Open space in the case of, yeah, except for the ones that staff noted were not subject to change. Right, mixed employment. Open space has already been applied in the Planning Commission recommendation and then also via amendment documents.
 the earlier amendment at the Selwood section. So you might want to just make a fresh amendment. Or maybe just to uphold the Planning Commission's recommendation. Yeah, all right. So I'll second her motion to uphold the Planning Commission's recommendation. Is that right? And then the only part that you added as a council after that was the Selwood section that you already voted on. So you don't necessarily need to make a motion if you don't want to revisit that, but that –
 If you did want to revisit that, that would be a different motion. Selwood or Springwater Corridor? It's the Springwater section in Selwood. Oh, okay. So, Andy, we appreciate you, and we know that you and Chair Hughes and the rest of the Metro Council are doing a great job, but I think there's just a critical couple of issues here in terms of keeping good faith with what the public has a right to expect.
 and having gone door-to-door for the Metro Green Spaces Initiative, I just can't imagine a scenario in which we wouldn't, as the Planning and Zoning Agency, in effect verify what the voters did and what Metro did when it bought these properties, to say, yeah, that was intended to be open space, that's why we bought it. And I think it's just you're making a very good, and so did your representatives, we're making a very good rational decision.
 argument, but it's a rational argument that essentially undermines the deal that we have with the voters and the community, or at least could be understood that way. And I think to quote the old traffic safety commercial, you may be right, but you might be dead right.
 and that you will lose more in public support than you'll gain in flexibility. So that's the reason why, even though you're a partner agency, I just can't make this change. I think it needs to be open space because that was what people believed they were promised.
 I just add to that I believe we need to be consistent with what we've done for private property owners and for other government jurisdictions and particularly as the Mayor said since this was purchased with Greenspace's money it just doesn't seem right to not then zone in open space and so I will have another amendment to change the parks property by Mitchell Creek to open space. Further discussion before we vote? All right let's take a vote then please.
 Well, I want to thank Metro for submitting a letter and staff for reviewing it. And my normal inclination would be to give deference to a regional government partner on a matter like this, but it still has to be explained to my satisfaction and it has to be supported by staff and it has to be reconciled with the Commission action. And I frankly, maybe it's because we've been at this for so long, I'm still having trouble getting my arms around your position and with no disrespect to your position.
 Under these circumstances, I just can't embrace it because I can't fully appreciate or understand the rationale. So the safest thing to do is to vote aye.
 Well, I do understand the position of a sister agency that has an elected governing board. And what we're doing here is really substituting our judgment on high at 30,000 feet, looking at aerial photographs for their judgment on the ground of their own biologists, their own scientists, and ultimately their own elected council, which has to take the heat for any decision they may make.
 to sell this land, to maximize other open space opportunities. So I really think we're being, with all due respect, we're being a little bit arrogant here, and I think we should be more accommodating of this request. I'm an agency that's done a great job, an outstanding job, in acquiring and preserving open spaces and natural areas in this regional area, and has had the voter support
 two times and perhaps the third time this fall in doing exactly that. So I think they've done a good job. I think they need some flexibility to maximize their investments. And as I said, it's a little bit arrogant on our part to be dictating this on high. So I vote no. That's the correct vote. Yes. No. No vote.
 I'm torn on this because I'm sympathetic to all of the arguments that I've heard. I was going to ask for the Mitchell Creek item to be pulled out separately given the concern about inconsistency between how we're treating our own property and how we're treating Metro's property. So I was very glad that Commissioner Fritz clarified that that's sort of an error that Parks wants to have addressed.
 So I think that ultimately I will follow Commissioner Fish's lead and say that being confused, I vote. And I hope I wasn't confused about how I was voting. Thank you.
 you know i went door to door for the green spaces bond measure in 95 and the property near me was purchased it was the very first property purchased with that money and it would not only be abhorrent to me for that property to not be zoned open space which is going to be in this comprehensive plan but to sell off some of the development rights to it that's not what we worked for so hard and i understand that it may diminish the amount of return coming back into the green spaces bond
 When it comes down to it, I think we need more open spaces in Portland and in the metro region and not fewer. And we're zoning the rest of the comprehensive plans to maximize development where we think it's appropriate. So thinking about transfer of development rights, we're already trying to put the development in the right places. And so not knowing where the transfer would be, I can't support treating metro differently from other property owners. I do.
 Well, we're not making this decision from on high, but I want to mention some lofty principles. But first, I've walked some of these properties, so it's not on high. It's at street level or rather trail level. So and like Commissioner Fritz, I campaigned for this measure. And there is a good faith issue for those of us who did.
 that's important secondly I spent part of the day as I often do with planning bureau staff today working our way through some details of other planning issues that are on their way to the council namely our residential infill project and we're at a time where there's so much growth and change in Portland that we've got to be able to give people certainty about what's going to be saved and what's going to change whether it's the great old house next door the
 the pattern of development in the neighborhood or where the green space is. And the more certainty we can give people in a time of great change, the better. And so to undermine that, what certainty we do have, that open space is open space, parks are parks, neighborhood main streets are where a lot of growth is going to happen, and the great old house next door might get torn down, or now with maybe new regulations it won't be, but it will be turned into two apartment units that look like,
 the same old house. Those are the kinds of reassurances that the people that we work for are really desperate to see. And so that's the high-altitude question here is not substituting our judgment for metros, but being sensitive to the fact that we're growing so fast and changing so much that part of what has to happen in this plan is people need to know what the deal is for the next 20 years. So that's one of the reasons, Andy, why I think we have to defer in this case to saying, no, open space is open space. Look elsewhere for change.
 Aye. Thank you. Appreciate you very much. Thanks for taking the time. Okay. Now, Commissioner Fritz, do you want to make a motion about the parks parcel? Yes, I move that we change the parks parcel at Mitchell Creek to open space. Second. Further discussion? Deborah, did you have something to add? No, no, no. I'm here for the next item. Okay. All right. Let's take a vote on that, please. Yes. Aye. No vote. Thank you for salvaging the city's credibility, Commissioner. Aye. Well, thanks to Metro for bringing that up. Aye. Thank you.
 feels all right okay now back to the um erroneous assumptions on at least some of our part about the parcel in westmoreland
 Right. Okay, so I went through that script. Help us again, Debra. Okay, sure. Yeah. And by the way, just procedurally, is this a package we're going to be voting on? Well, I think we're going to reconsider. We'll reconsider. So I'm bringing this back to you, the explanation. I think Mayor Hill's already said it.
 i ran through that i'm happy to answer questions i can show two slides but i want to make sure no i've been for me i've been briefed my colleagues may need a description but just so we're going to reconsider and then vote separately or as a package it would be one vote as part of the reconsideration
 Okay, so the first motion would be to reconsider the vote by which we passed Amendment S-12. Is that right? So let me show you. Show us and make sure I get this right. This first slide shows you what the vote you took the other day, last week. And so the northern portion, originally everything outlined in a dark black line, originally was black.
 the amendment was for RH. What your last vote was was for the northern portion to be R1 and the southern portion to be R2.5. But then if you could go to the next slide, the modification, based on what I now am aware was a misunderstanding, is the vote that you took the other day did render four parcels nonconforming, and that wasn't...
 and it sounds like what you thought you were voting on was not going to result in anything rendered nonconforming. So the revised motion would be to reaffirm that you're denying the RH, you're voting for the R1 and the R2.5, with these four exceptions, these four parcels would be R1, so that they would not be nonconforming. Well, they would have otherwise been in the R2.5 area. In the R2.5, I got it.
 i got it so there's a four plex um three plex one under construction and another four plex so with the r1 they'd be taken care of so first then again i'll first i'll move that we reconsider okay any further discussion about the motion to reconsider so roll call on that please hi
 novick hi hi okay and now i'll move to apply uh r1 zoning to the northern portion and r2.5 zoning to the southern portion with the exception of the four lots shown here uh with one under permit for 14 units and three existing properties with multi-family correct further discussion roll call
 My only objection, Deborah, is your memo, which states the case very clearly, contains a number of places where staff falls on its sword. And I actually think this was – I thought that – I think that's very gracious, but this is very complicated, and there are a lot of moving pieces. And I think staff has performed superbly in advising this council. And if this is an example of an 11th-hour hiccup at the end of a –
 thousand hour process i salute you even further because it was a subtlety that was lost but i appreciate you bringing this forward and clarifying this and i'm pleased to vote aye i agree thank you very much
 Throughout this process, it's been absolutely exemplary. Thank you, Mayor Hales, for leading it, and thanks to Claire Adamsick and Pooja Bhat and my staff, who likewise have put in a lot of time and effort on this. It really does feel like it's been a partnership and a very collaborative, and this is an example of good government fessing up when we find out just in time that we've made some mistakes.
 we may find going down the line that there's been some other inadvertent errors, and in that case we can bring it back and change it. So that's part of the reason that I love high-level planning, is that you get to look into the future and try to plan for it and then make adjustments as things come along. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Bye.
 else yes i appreciate the bravos for staff because you have done a good job if uh in a part in a city with 200 some thousand parcels of land in a process this long if we have uh an error rate of two it's a bad thing for our planners and a good thing for us that they don't command baseball salaries thank you very much hi
 Okay. Anything else we have to clean up? One more cleanup item was a memo that we distributed regarding Figure 10.1 in the comp plan. This is the table that identifies which zones are allowed in which designations, and we discovered a couple small errors there that we'd like you to correct. I'll move the revised version of Figure 10.1. Second. Eric, these are all just technical corrections? Yeah, we've explained it in the memo. Further discussion? Okay.
 Roll call, please. Rish. Hi. Novick. Hi. Ritz.
 That's actually another good example of government doing its duty the way we're supposed to do it. And we were very clear in this process that we closed the public hearing, and then we as elected officials get to make decisions. So I'm reminded that yesterday we got berated that the last changes in the budget were not opened up and explained line by line to the public. And partly that's because we're supposed to be doing that. And that's part of our staff's job, and our job is to make sure that we understand things like this errata memo. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 All right. Thank you very much. Okay. So we're done with 527.1 and 2. They're both, of course, continued forward. And now we'll take up item 528. We'll be taking 529 first, Commissioner. Oh, sorry. Yeah. Is that right? Did you want to do the...
 529. Do you want to do 530 first? Is that right? We have everyone teed up. Susan, you want to do 530 quickly? You can keep it to five. Do we have a lot of people testifying on it? One. Okay, Mayor, as a courtesy to Susan, I don't object to bumping, but we have a lot of people teed up. All right, item 530. 530, revise solid waste and recycling rates and fees for...
 franchise residential collection and commercial permit tonnage fees effective July 1, 2016. Okay, so this is the first of our utility rate ordinances. We are pleased to have our director here. I'll cut through the rest of my talking points and turn it right over to Susan Anderson. Thank you.
 Thank you Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and with me is Bruce Walker our Solid Waste Manager so we're here today to talk rates and we have some great news for the fourth year in a row solid waste and recycling rates are going down as you can see soon there it is in this slide
 We are proposing to reduce rates across the board. For example, in the 35-gallon roll cart, our most popular service level rates will be reduced by 20 cents from $29.35 to $29.15, and that doesn't sound like a lot, but
 If you look at your electric, gas, and other utility bills, there aren't any others that are going down. So we're very happy about this. Every year we do a thorough review of all the costs for providing service. And this year the rate reduction was actually kind of amazing because at the same time that rates are going down, we required haulers to make improvements to their truck fleet, shifting to cleaner diesel or compressed natural gas trucks.
 However, this increase in cost was more than covered by three factors. We have excellent recycling and composting by all of our residents, and that means lower tip fees for all the composting versus garbage, improved efficiencies by local haulers, and lower prices for fuel. If you take a step back in history, you can see that rates have continued to be lower than inflation ever since, really ever since the residential franchise system began.
 You can see the slide there, back in 1993. Even with providing free roll carts to every household, you used to have to buy your own garbage can, and now we provide those and converting to much cleaner vehicles.
 So our partnership with the City's haulers has been a great success. There is one area that I would like us to look into to see if there are opportunities to diversify the ownership of all of our residential franchisees. I don't want to do this tomorrow. I just want us to begin to think about this as we look at all of our programs through an equity lens.
 I think we need to recognize that we have very few and maybe one women-owned firms or minority-owned firms. And so as we have our franchises for 10 years, but as we begin to look towards the next time, I want us to look at that and see about opportunities.
 Next slide. On the commercial side, you will remember that we don't set rates for commercial service. Commercial service does include multifamily properties. We do establish rules for safety and for effective collection. We also collect a tonnage fee that funds the oversight of all the commercial haulers and also funds commercial waste reduction recycling programs.
 And this includes, again, service to multifamily properties. It also pays for collection from public trash cans, like those that are along the transit mall. Currently only a few business districts in the city get this collection service. We'd like to broaden that. It's something we've talked about for years.
 Probably a decade. What we would like to do is add that service to regional centers, town centers and neighborhood centers. Do this over five years, spread out the cost and do that by adding $1.30 to the tonnage fee, so increasing that from $8.30 to $9.60. That's about a half a percent increase for most commercial customers.
 We don't know the exact cost because it's a free market, and that amount is determined between those who are getting the service and their private hauler. So it's something we've been looking at for a long time. I think we haven't had an increase in the tonnage fee for three or four years. Three years? 2012. Yeah, four years.
 and this would roll it in over five years and begin to provide that service in the business districts. And as we become more walkable, wonderful, complete neighborhoods, it's more and more important that we keep those districts looking great. Does it start this year with expanding service to more districts? We have seven right now that we do. Right, and so there are another 20, I believe, 24. And so what we'll do is roll in another four,
 five a year, and we'll come up with a process for how to do that and obviously looking at all parts of the city. We received a lot of requests from the PIRL. Yes. To add this. You're aware of that, I'm assuming, and that they would be considered in the next wave. Is that correct? Yes, sir.
 That's terrific. I'm very excited about it. That's great. Thank you. Would you be adding some more of the Big Belly solar compactors? Those are not city-owned, and maybe Bruce can talk to that. Keeping it within our five minutes here is those are provided by private investment. Portland Business Alliance has ponied up for those, and our contracts do the collection.
 Who currently takes care of garbage at, say, TriMet stops and in businesses like on Hawthorne? Well, on TriMet stops, TriMet is responsible.
 Hawthorne is not an example of where we provide service, but it would be an example of some of those business districts, town centers that we would be looking at in the future. So currently it's the neighboring businesses that pay for garbage pickup there? In that example and several other in the city, yes. And you'll have a process for business districts to apply? Yes, we will. Figured. Yeah, I...
 There's a lot of interest, and I think there's a lot of confusion amongst the community as to who's responsible for what. So having us responsible for more, I think, is definitely the way to go. Thank you both. Other questions? Thank you very much. I know there's at least one person that wants to speak on this item, so come on up. Thank you very much for all of your work. Thanks for the last minute. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Dave White. I am regional representative for the Oregon Refuse and Recycling Association, and in that position I assist and represent the Portland Haulers Association and its members that provide solid waste and recycling collection service in the city. PHA members have worked cooperatively with city staff to provide financial information that was analyzed by staff and your rate consultant,
 And the haulers appreciate the opportunity to engage in discussions with staff during the rate review process and the city's willingness to consider that input. PHA believes that the rate review process is fair and has resulted in a rate proposal, that's before you, that is reasonable for the rate payers and the haulers.
 This is the fourth year in a row that rates have remained flat or gone down. It's remarkable, as Susan just said, considering inflationary impacts, negative recycling markets that the haulers are continuing to buy, expensive but energy efficient, and clean operating trucks to meet the clean fleet requirements.
 PHA is pleased that BPS acknowledged this year that the proposed rate reduction is again a testament to the haulers becoming more efficient, that efficiency results in lower labor costs and downward pressure on rates. So just a heads up for next year, we are proposing a big reason for the efficiencies that we are achieving is because we've moved to automated trucks and roll carts that we use.
 And about 80 percent, I think it is, of Portland's garbage is not collected in a roll cart, but yard debris and recycling is. And so we have raised the issue with their staff to consider by next year, July of 2017, the next rate review, to move towards a fully carted system for efficiency and for worker safety.
 So with that, like I said, I think you can tell that we support this proposal. We thank you for the opportunity to serve the community. And if you have any questions, I'd be glad to try to answer them. Thank you for coming in to say that we're doing a good job, that staff is doing a good job. We're doing a great job. And to celebrate what you're doing. I was just checking Twitter, and I'm shocked and saddened to find out that it's not yet been reported that we are decreasing the rates.
 I'm sure that will come through any minute that everybody will be right on that. So thank you for your partnership on that. When you come back to ask for the universal roll carts next year, it would be really great to get information on the worker compensation claims from your staff. I'm guessing that there's a huge decrease in injuries to your staff from not having to do so much heavy lifting. And I changed to a roll cart for my garbage because of that issue and because I was informed by staff of the
 benefits of automation. And then I wanted to ask both you and staff as to whether we could do a renewed education campaign to help people remember what goes in garbage, what goes in recycling, what goes in compost. Because I think as time has gone by, and some of the rules have changed back and forth, as I see as I'm walking to the bus stop, recycling cans that seem to be full of garbage to me.
 So I want to make sure that our sorters at the facilities and that your staff are getting the work, the assistance from the government that we could do. Oh, we work well in partnership to get that information out, and we need to continue to send that message, so we will do that. Thank you. Thank you. Well.
 Well, I'll just say this is going to go to second reading next week, so we won't actually vote on it today. But while you're here, I just want to say that, you know, again, I often inform my colleagues about what I hear from other mayors when I go to U.S. conference and mayors' meetings. And in other cities, garbage rates and garbage and recycling service are, you know, issues that are full of strikes and strife. Yeah.
 And here it's a quiet hearing with partners. So thank you for being good partners because the haulers have helped make us the success that we are in recycling, kept these rates down, and now we have this ability to, with a modest increase in tipping fees, provide neighborhood recycling.
 district garbage service all over the city. And the fact that there is no strife about it is really one more thing about Fort One that we take for granted, but maybe shouldn't. So we appreciate you. Well, thank you for that opportunity. Thanks very much. All right. This comes back next week for a final vote. Mayor, please come back in two weeks. Two weeks for a final vote. Thank you. With the rest of the budget. Okay. Thank you. Now we'll move to 528 and 529 together. Together, please. Okay. If you read those two, please call them. 528.
 Revise sewer and storm water rates, charges, and fees in accordance with the fiscal year 2016-2017 Sewer User Rate Study and 529. Authorize the rates and charges for water and water-related activities.
 services during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017, and fix an effective date. Okay. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, today I have the honor of presenting to you the proposed rate increases for the Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. For the third consecutive year, I have directed our two utilities to keep the combined rate increase at under 5%, and the bureaus have once again delivered.
 They have proposed a rate increase of just under 4.5% or roughly $4 per month for the typical customer. This reflects our ongoing commitment to providing good value to our rate payers and to investing in basic services like replacing old pipes and preparing for the big one. A little more background on our budget. The typical monthly bill is about $100. About a third is for water and two-thirds for sewer stormwater.
 As you'll see from the presentations, we believe we provide pretty good value to our customers. For example, we deliver two gallons of clean, safe, and reliable water to almost one million people in the region for about a penny. How do we stack up locally and nationally? Well, if you live in Lake Oswego or Tigard, you'll pay more for your water.
 In a recent survey released by J.D. Power, customers across the West Coast reported an average monthly cost of water of about $79. That's more than double what the Water Bureau will be proposing here today. On the sewer stormwater side, the typical customer under this proposal will pay just under $70 a month. And a part of that, as you know, is paying off the debt on the big pipe.
 And no one likes to pay more for a basic service, including me, but I'm pleased that we have been able to stabilize rates for three straight years. And I'm proud that our public utilities continue to invest in maintaining our system while exercising discipline with ratepayer dollars. This year, for example, with the mayor's leadership, the general fund picked up the cost of preservation work at Mount Tabor and the water fountain operations.
 There are a number of people I'd like to thank today. First, the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon for their ongoing partnership with Portland's utilities, and we'll be hearing from Janice Thompson later. The New Portland Utility Board for their thoughtful consideration of both bureaus' budgets, and we'll be hearing from the co-chairs. And our budget analysts, Ryan Kinsella, Claudio Camposano, and Melissa Merrill.
 Next, the two Mikes, Mike Stewart and Mike Jordan, and their dedicated teams at the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. They serve the public 24-7, 365 days a year, and I'm proud to lead them. And finally, my two staff liaisons, Jim Blackwood and Liam Frost.
 Now I'd like to invite Mike Stewart and his Director of Finance, Cecilia Huynh, to kick things off with the Water Bureau presentation. Mike, welcome. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Mike Stewart. I'm the Director of the Water Bureau, and on my right is Cecilia Huynh. She'll do the heavy lifting today.
 Many bureaus, after they submit their budget and there's a vote, are done. But we have the privilege of having another hearing or two with a goal of producing this little yellow book called Water Rates and Sewer Rates. It's very important to us, and this book, do we know what color it's going to be next year? Red. It's going to be red next year.
 This book governs our lives and the lives of our rate payers, our customers, and developers, and so on, with all the rates and charges that we use throughout the year. And that's our goal here today. So, Cecilia? Thanks, Mike. I'm Cecilia Huynh, the finance director for the Portland Water Bureau. I'm going to start on slide two here.
 The Water Bureau's total resources for next year, fiscal year 16-17, will be about $238 million. Two-thirds of that will be from water sales revenue. That's the monthly charges, and about $10 million of capital revenues. These revenues are generated from rates, fees, and charges that are in the ordinance that is before you today. These revenues will fund the capital program, and that includes starting work on the Washington Park project,
 And the operating budget includes the 2 million ad packages that is in the approved budget. Next slide. Summary of our rates. Water retail rates will increase 7%. Our forecast a year ago was 9.4%. The 7% rate increase will result in about a $2.22 a month increase to a typical residential customer.
 System development charges, that's calculated on a reimbursement basis with the updated system asset values. Those will go up 2.7%. Fixed fees and charges, those are charges for mains and services installations, hydrant use, development fees, permits. Those fees and charges were updated to the cost to provide those services. Next slide, please. Water rates components and the five-year forecast. Okay.
 You can see a large part of the rate increases in the forecast is to fund the capital program, and that's the salmon color on the screen and maybe orange on your handout. And that orange portion of the graph includes Washington Park Reservoir and the Willamette River crossing projects. We continue to use the rate stabilization account to smooth and stabilize our rate increases.
 You can see that for fiscal year 16-17, that 7% rate increase, without our rate stabilization account, we would need 11.5% rate increase to fund the capital program and to operate and maintain the water system as we have included in the budget request. Cecilia, let me just comment. This is our five-year forecast in 2017.
 We tend to be pretty conservative in our assumptions. So this has, in the last three or four years, been the starting point, even with the rate stabilization contribution, the starting point. Then we take advantage of historically low interest rates, whatever the other shared costs are, and we scrub that number and we get it.
 typically below what the forecast is, but this is a snapshot of what our five-year forecast may look like. Yes. And that was the last point I was going to make about this slide related to the forecasted rates, is that we do include very conservative economic assumptions that are in here that gets updated on an annual basis. So pink in that slide, it's a little hard to read here. Actually, I just need to adjust my colors. You've got a brilliant orange on yours. Okay. Pink on that slide, the larger bar is capital.
 Yes. All right, now I can go. And why don't we use the rate stabilization so that the rate is always the same over the five-year forecast? Why is there a jump in 2020? That particular jump in 2020, you see the yellow portion right in the middle there, that's the Portland building, and we did not...
 spread that rate impact. We don't know how we're going to be funding it. We just sort of put that into that one year because that was the year that we're expected to start paying for it. That is certainly something that we'll be working with OMF facilities and debt to, you know, refine some of the assumptions that we have in our forecast. Again, that's something that we'll be working to update as we get more information about the Portland Building Project. Thank you. That
 That's very helpful because otherwise they are all around the 8-point-something range, right? And the reason that you are required to contribute to the Portland building is because you own property within it, right? Yes, ma'am. Yeah. And whether we own or, I mean, we're a tenant. We will be in the Portland building. Right. And so that cost will, I mean, we will be sharing in on that cost. And staff has to be somewhere, and that's why rates are appropriate to use for that. Absolutely. Thank you. Next slide. Next slide.
 As Commissioner Fish mentioned, we provide nearly two gallons of water for a penny. Slide six, how does the rate changes affect our customers' bill? All of our retail customers will see a 7% increase to their water portion of their bill. The qualifying low-income customers will continue to receive a 50% discount to their bill. And you see the amounts on the table, so I'm not going to get into the dollar amounts. Next slide. Slide seven.
 A comparison of the water bills to other basic utilities that most household customers use. We make up about 6% of total household utility services. You can see that we're among the lowest cost utilities. The next slide is a comparison of our monthly typical residential customer bill.
 with the rate increase at 33.83 and how we compare to those other regional water providers. And the last slide I have is also a comparison of our system development charges to some of those same water providers as well as others. And we are among the water providers with the lowest system development charges.
 So can we talk about that for a minute as it happens? Somewhere between when we were talking about the comprehensive plan and when we got to this item on our council calendar, the Census Bureau released the information that, to no one's surprise in this room, Portland grew by 12,000 people in the last 12 months, so we're now a city of 632,000 people.
 So capital investment is going to be pretty important for every bureau. And recovering costs from new development is going to be pretty important as well. So I know there's state law that dictates and certainly heavily influences what our SDCs are.
 Where do you feel like we are given that rate of growth, given the huge demands for capital investment, and given where we are? You know, we're kind of in the middle, upper middle part of the pack on rates and the lower part of the pack on STCs. Thoughts?
 about that? Well, you know, this is the only, as I was telling Mike the other day, this is the only benefit of being or having a system that's very old. Right. You know, our system, again, is based on the reimbursement basis. And so there's been a lot of people, you know, the amount of people that have already paid into the system. So our cost as far as some development charges is,
 it's low for that very reason um to the extent that we're reinvesting in our system that's what's you know we will drive the rates up i don't we're not expanding our system so to the extent that we we shouldn't be moving too far to the right on this graph okay that's a helpful reminder we're not building a 55 million dollar conduit across the willamette river because more people are moving here we're building it because the old ones are old and they won't survive an earthquake so right where we're doing replacements of our system for the most part other questions colleagues
 Mayor, the way we've structured this is we'll go right to – I did have a question. Okay. Because you mentioned the low-income discount process, and we had had a discussion in previous years about whether that could be modified. I know you've been working on that. What's the update on that? The Portland Utility Board has been reviewing a report that we gave them. We are going to come back to that question, and we'll be coming to council –
 probably sometime this calendar year with some recommendations. We're looking at everything from the possibility of changing the building code to require individual meters of multi-family units to different ways that we could provide a benefit to our eligible customers to what we're doing currently, which is trying to strengthen the relationship we have with the county that does the outreach to eligible customers.
 so that we try to capture more of the people that are currently eligible that may not know about the program. And we're targeting older adults in the hopes of keeping them in their homes and partnerships with groups like Home Forward who can work with us. We have some structural, as you know very well, there's some structural problems with the program that requires a meter. Okay.
 Home Forward, through their Section 8 program, has a lot of potentially eligible customers. We're working with them to get to more of them. But the bigger fixes in terms of how we might make a substantial jump in folks who take advantage of it, we're still considering alternatives, and we'll be coming back to council.
 That's exciting. Thank you. And then what's the update on the billing and returning to automatic transfers? Well, we've heard from, you know, we have over 30,000 people that depended or relied on the convenience of automatic payments. And obviously, we deeply regretted inconveniencing them as part of PCI compliance. Mike tells me that
 Perhaps as early as July, we'll be coming back to Council with a suite of enhancements which we'll be offering our customers. And I'm really excited about, and so is Kathy, our customer service. More importantly, Kathy's really excited because – I think it's very much more important that Kathy's excited about it. She bore the brunt of PCI compliance and with having to disappoint a lot of customers by suspending auto pay.
 We'll be coming forward, Commissioner Fritz, with some really substantial improvements and enhancements in customer service, including options which people can take advantage of. And we're very excited. I don't want to overpromise on this, but we hope to have it teed up to come back in July. Well, I want to note for the record that it wasn't the Water Bureau or Environmental Services that required a change from that process, that it was to do with overall compliance with credit card payments in the city. So I commend the fact that you've probably had to take the –
 specifically Kathy and her team, have had to take the brunt of complaints and I appreciate their reminders and the things that you've done to remind me and others. And then do you want to,
 Also plug the monthly billing, the monthly averaging option. Thank you very much. You and I should take this on the road, by the way. I'm wondering if you two rehearsed this. We do offer a monthly billing option. I take advantage of it. I get an e-mail. I get an e-bill that directs me to pay it online. And it's so easy that even I can figure it out. And we are trying to migrate more people to monthly billing.
 I think we're close to 20,000 now. Something like that. Something like that. The mayor has challenged us to move that as fast as possible. And, of course, what we find is that our customers like it for a lot of reasons. One is that it gives you more flexibility in doing budgeting. Two is the typical customer doesn't have the same sticker shock when they get a monthly bill. I mean, if I got a quarterly bill from my cable company, I'd have a heart attack. So it allows you to compare apples to apples.
 And we will also be proposing some refinements in the monthly billing process that will make it even easier. And the new system will allow us to send more customized messages to people through the e-bills. That's actually news to me, that you would like people to sign up for the monthly billing. It would be better for the system if we all went to monthly? Yes.
 Well, we think there's a lot of benefits. A lot of people still request that paper bill to follow, so it doesn't have as much benefit in terms of paper as we'd like at this point. But, yes, we would like as many people to move to e-bills as possible. We're constantly pumping up e-bills through our communications with our customers. Right, but for those of us who I actually like not paying for a couple of months and then paying once every quarter... No change. Would you prefer that...
 As long as we're doing it online, does it matter to the efficiency of the system whether we do it on a monthly basis or a quarterly basis? Not the way that it is right now. It's more of a psychology thing.
 that when people talk about the bills and so on, if you're only hit with this quarterly bill, it seems awfully big. So if you were a private business, it would be much better to have the monthly bill because you're not talking about such a large number. So the psychology of it's important. You do it by choice, so that's okay. But many people would rather have a smaller bill and
 There's no inherent efficiency in the system. Not the way our system is put together right now. Nor is there a cash flow issue, but again, we'd like as many people on eBill as possible. It gives us more options for communicating with them. The customer service enhancements we're going to be rolling out include, for example, an opportunity to send reminders to a third party we're very excited about. So an older adult that maybe is struggling with managing their bills.
 can sign up to have a trusted custodian or child or caretaker also get a reminder and those kinds of things. So we have more flexibility with e-bills.
 But you are free to continue to get a quarterly bill, and we'll offer people choice. That's the key. Yeah, I know a lot of Portlanders, we want to do the right thing. And so I'm glad for that clarification that as long as it's e-billing, it doesn't matter much to you whether it's monthly or quarterly. Correct. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you, team. Mayor, we're going to move right to BES. Jonas Beery is here, BES Business Services Manager. Mike Jordan is traveling.
 So Jonas is going to present for the team. Welcome. Thank you, Commissioner, Mr. Mayor, Council. Jonas Beery, Business Services Manager for the Bureau of Environmental Services. And, Commissioner, before I begin, I believe we have an amendment to correct a Scrivener's error in the exhibit. Okay.
 Yes, I think my colleagues have that amendment. Why don't you describe it? Sure. So this simply corrects a date error in Section E-5 of Exhibit A related to the recent exemption of SDCs for accessory dwelling units. That was extended two years to 2018. We failed to update that in the exhibit. So this simply corrects that from 2016 to 2020. Is there a motion to accept the amendment? So moved. Seconded.
 All in favor, let's take a roll call, please. Yes. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Thank you. Go ahead, please. Thank you. And before I begin, if I may, I'd like to take just a moment to recognize an employee who's retiring from the Bureau.
 As Senior Economist for Bureau of Environmental Services, for over the past – or approximately the past decade, Sam Murray has been the person primarily responsible for creating and managing and monitoring the rates and the methodologies that lead to the ordinance that's before you today. Thank you.
 Sam has been an employee of the city for 17 years. His experience has been valued and valuable, and we will certainly miss him at the Bureau. So I just wanted to take a moment here today to say thank you to Sam for his service to the city and to Portland Repairers. Thank you. Sure. Congratulations.
 So very quickly, what do we do at BES? We manage over $13.5 billion in assets that provide reliable sewage collection and treatment and manage the city's stormwater system and protect watershed health. We're the lead agency for compliance with a number of environmental regulatory requirements and for the city's Portland Harbor Superfund coordination efforts.
 As you know, this is a fairly stable budget that's been proposed, no major changes from prior expectations. The $2.2 million increase to the operating budget is a 1.4% increase over the prior years, over 15-16's revised operating budget.
 We're coming out of a cycle of facility planning at the two treatment plants and transitioning to condition assessment relating to pump stations and to the stormwater system. We're planning for the future to ensure we continue to effectively manage the system to meet ratepayer expectations and avoid any losses of service reliability. Thank you.
 On the capital improvement side, as we're coming out of completion of the CSO project, we're moving to a mode of system maintenance, addressing maintenance backlogs and using asset management principles to identify the smartest and most critical system replacement and investments. And you can see that in the CIP for fiscal 16-17, approximately two-thirds of which is for maintenance and reliability projects.
 You've seen this slide before. I won't go into any detail, but a reminder, as the Commissioner noted, that about two-thirds of our budget goes towards investment in assets, either the blue pie, investment expected in capital improvements in 16-17, or the green slice of the pie, the $180 million that goes towards payment of debt service related to prior capital investment.
 So rates for 16-17 will increase the average monthly single-family residential bill by $2.20, which is an effective increase of 3.25%. The primary components of the utility rates are sanitary sewer costs at about 60% of that amount, stormwater at around 40% of that amount, and then a fraction going towards the Superfund Portland Harbor efforts.
 And as you can see in Exhibit A to the ordinance, all of the various individual rates and fees, including those impacting non-residential customers, those impacting developers, et cetera, those are experiencing comparable modest increases this year with a couple of exceptions that I'd like to note. The first is SDCs.
 As was mentioned earlier, SDCs reimburse the Bureau for investments we've made in increasing system capacity to accommodate new development and growth. Fees for 16-17 on average for the Bureau of Environmental Services are actually decreasing by 1.8 percent this year.
 We also currently collect around $1.4 million annually from building permit review and land use review fees, and at the suggestion of the Citizens Utility Board and after discussion previously with this body, we're increasing that cost recovery target to 75%. That leads to an increase in revenues for the Bureau of $1.4 million ongoing. Thank you.
 I want to quickly mention a couple of assistance programs. Obviously, we have a low-income discount program. It's offered for families at 60 percent of median state income or below. We have over 7,000 participants currently on that program. As noted in the exhibit, the average discount for an average monthly bill for 16-17 would be just around $31 a month.
 We also have the Clean River Rewards Stormwater Discount Program. Over 33,000 accounts on that program for properties that manage their onsite stormwater in a way that we don't bear a cost as the system. So they get an eligible discount for that around $8.50 on an average single-family monthly residential bill. And I will flag that that program is set to expire in June 2017, so we expect to be coming
 over the next 12 months with a discussion about what we do with that program going forward.
 We do monitor and revise our rate forecast at various points throughout the year. I'm happy to share that our rate projection has decreased considerably from the expectation last year at this time. We began last year, 15-16's requested budget, with an expectation of a 16-17 increase of 3.85%. We revised that downward to 3.45% as we started this budget process, and we've been able to further reduce that today to a 3.25% impact.
 three major things that led to that change or that have changed since we talked to you in February. The first is the increase in revenues due to the cost recovery on the land use and building permit fees, the $1.4 million that came from that. We're using some additional rate stabilization dollars, about $1.1 million being contributed this year. Those costs helped offset the additional costs for the
 data center relocation project. There's costs coming into our budget this year, and the net effect is reducing that rate to 325. What does that mean to rate payers? What that means is the reduction from 385 to 325 over the past year's cycle means that approximately $800,000 a year this year and ongoing is staying in the pockets of residential rate payers within the city of Portland.
 And I want to point out that these improvements impact not just fiscal 16-17, but increase the forecast in future years as well. You can see here the favorable downward trending in our rate increases over the past five years.
 And you can see that as we take a long-term view in our rate forecast, we're really targeting a strategy towards stable and predictable rate increases with the hope that we can continue lowering that bar. You can see a five-year projection here. Our projection actually goes out further than that using the rate stabilization fund balance to stabilize those rates at a consistent level.
 Our current strategy aims towards a long-term path where rates do not outpace general economic and income growth. We look forward to continuing to work with Portland Utility Board, Citizens Utility Board, City Budget Office, City Council, and other public stakeholders to strike the right balance between reliable service, smart investment in system infrastructure, and rate affordability.
 And as I wrap up, I'd like to share how we compare to peers. After implementation of these rates on July 1, we'll be kind of in the middle category among a dozen or so peer cities. If we extended this list, we'd still fit around the middle to bottom. This year, we're actually being passed by three entities on this list, Olympia, Sacramento, and Cleveland, and we expect to continue moving down the list as we stabilize our rate increases over the future. You can see here that our 3.25% increase is low,
 than nearly all of our peers, and we expect that will continue to be the case in the coming years. Colleagues, this is a great slide that also illustrates the benefit of being an early city to adopt a combined sewer overflow system. So we got it out of the way relatively early, and we did it during a time when we could borrow at very favorable rates, and for cities like Atlanta, Georgia, and others that are just
 coming into their CSO compliance time, they're going to have substantially higher costs and likely to have higher borrowing costs. So that is a virtue of us having completed that work ahead of some of our pure cities.
 And lastly, to tie back to the Water Bureau's presentation and the Commissioner's introductory statements, I want to show you the combined increase between the two utilities. The impact is an increase of 4.45 percent, which is a combined monthly dollar impact on the average single-family residential bill of a little over $4 per month. And with that, Commissioner, I'll hand back to you. Thank you very much. We have some invited testimony. First questions from my colleagues? Thank you, Jonas. Well done. Thank you.
 Mayor, we have two panels who invited testimony. First, I'd like to invite up the co-chairs of the Portly Utility Board, Kendra Smith and Alan Worman. Thank them for hanging out a little longer than they might have expected. They're going to provide some testimony, and then we're going to invite Janice Thompson from the Citizens Utility Board to come up, offer her comments, and then we'll take public testimony. Great. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioner. My name is Kendra Smith, and I'm the Pub co-chair. I'd like to thank you once again for the opportunity to share the Pub's perspective regarding rates. Given the complexities that the utilities have and the continuous demands on each bureau,
 The Pub has spent since September looking at current practices, but really with an eye towards the future, and as they've taught us, continuing to balance the issues of affordability, levels of service, and risk tolerance. For both bureaus, the operating budgets for fiscal year 16-17, as well as the five-year CIP,
 Our products have previously developed programs, plans, and studies that have guided their decision-making around the infrastructure. So for the pub, we didn't expect to significantly influence this year's budget process, given the timing of things, though we do look to advise the bureaus and city council in
 the future by looking upstream of this year's budget process we're looking forward to continued briefings from the bureaus and their upcoming strategic planning to identify where the pub can most influence the process and carry out the charge to advise you we do have a few
 elements that we'd like to share with you and I'm going to have Alan go ahead and share some of those themes of what we're going to focus on for the upcoming year. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioner. I think the first area that we've focused in addition to the letter that we sent to you on January 29th is affordability. This is the affordability by our customers and our rate payers.
 And it's affected by these proposed rate increases. These increases are above both inflation and median income. I think the affordability that's impacted by these combined bureau budgets, that if you combine them are essentially about 5.2 percent, and if you compound it and forecast it as the bureaus have done, over the next five years you're looking at,
 A little over 28.6%. I think that needs to be reviewed as we go forward. And I would like to say also the pub, because of the short term that we've engaged, we plan to work with the bureaus about the long-term trajectory of these rates, including the
 specific projects, staffing levels, capital directions, our aging infrastructure, and communication so we can get this out to our customers, understanding the value that these bureaus bring to us.
 might also want to add that we did look at the biogas project in the organic waste receiving facility and give kudos to Janice for digging deep into that and we concur with her analysis and the areas of concern that were identified in that and the only other thing I would mention is that we have had a subcommittee meeting I think they've met
 eight times, eight or ten times, looking at this wicked problem of the low-income discount program and the complexities of the existing infrastructure and meters and
 trying to be equitable and making that program available to all the folks that potentially need it it is really challenging I was just in the subcommittee meeting today there they're they're trying to work through it but there are good reasons as to why we haven't
 come up with a solution to that yet. So there's a strong group of folks working on that, and hopefully we'll be able to bring something forward in the fall, as the Commissioner suggested. I really appreciate your work on that with the expertise that's on your group, because I do think it's potentially a model for other fees and services that we provide. So thank you for doing that hard work. Thank you.
 I guess the only question I'll just ask you before I thank you again for your service is, when we set up the Portland Utility Board, we built into the system that you would have dedicated staff. So you would have independent, dedicated staff at your service to help you do the work. Thank you.
 Now that you're kind of getting into this new assignment and forecast that next year you're likely to go even deeper into the budget, and as you've indicated, do you feel like you have the resources and the staff support you need to be effective? Yes.
 Absolutely. Very much so. Yeah, it's a great group all across the board, not only with Melissa, but the staff in both bureaus have been very responsive to all of our various questions, and we really appreciate their tolerance and flexibility in bringing materials to us. I'm proud of this council for correcting a flaw that I think existed structurally in the predecessor oversight body because we used to have people
 these annual reports and the concern was that they couldn't get a quorum, they didn't have enough people assigned to the body, and they didn't feel like they had the staff support. And we specifically built in that you would have dedicated staff support and you are truly independent. So thank you both for your service. Thank you very much. Other questions? Thank you both. Thanks. Okay, now you say one more invited testimony? One more. And Janice Thompson from the Citizens Utility Board is here to share her thoughts and then we'll take it to the public. Okay. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Janice. Good afternoon. Janice Thompson, Citizen Utility Board of Oregon. So I've got some testimony that's coming your way. I'm not going to go through every little bit of it, but I want to just zip through it, highlight those parts that are just kind of up to you to read, and then spend a little bit more time with some of the information at the end.
 So the first three pages kind of focus on the proposed budgets or the, yeah, the budget that's been adopted or will be adopted and therefore informs the rates. So in terms of BES, I want to thank all of you, but especially the mayor and Commissioner Fish for two adjustments that are noted on page one and the top of page two that were made in the mayor's budget.
 they've already been alluded to in terms of the biogas project and also the cost recovery issue. In terms of the Water Bureau, it was really great that Commissioner Fish and the bureaus kind of included some key recommendations from CUB in their requested budget. And so thanks to the mayor for retaining those provisions. One relates to general funds requirements
 dollars related to the Mount Tabor historic preservation work and the outreach related to the monthly availability of monthly billing. So on page two there, it kind of highlights CUB's three reasons to support this. The two of them already came up in previous discussion. I just wanted to mention the third one, which is –
 For those people, and Mr. Fritz, you're kind of focused. I mean, for those people who, like me, are actually kind of old-fashioned and still get the paper bills, a quarterly bill is more cost-effective for the bureaus. So...
 Obviously, I think that difference is going to just kind of start to fade away as there's more and more e-billing. Nevertheless, I think one of the reasons there's a need for a really vigorous outreach effort on the availability of the monthly billing option is that future discussions about possibly moving to quarterly meter reading can be informed by that information. Like, you know, if you really do your job and get the word out, and there's still –
 know, a surprising large people who say, you know what, a quarterly bill is okay. Well, then when there are discussions, as there have been in the past, about the very expensive step of moving to meter, monthly meter reading, you have that information. But what I don't want to have happen is to potentially have that question come up and the answer to be, well, we really didn't do a whole lot of outreach, so we don't really know what the
 you know, the use of the monthly billing option tells us in terms of that. So just a little more than I had intended there, but since it came up earlier, I thought I would highlight that. Well, it might be interesting to look at some other big ticket items that come along, for instance, auto insurance or homeowners insurance premiums that I certainly have the option of paying them on an annual basis or a monthly basis and...
 Obviously, it depends on whether you're actually writing the check. I mean, it's one of the reasons that I prefer currently the quarterly billing is because I just have to figure out, I have to remember to do that once a quarter rather than once a month. So that might be a guide to find out from the insurance building who opts for which course of action. Yeah, no, that's a really good point because that is a mechanism that gives people the option. Yeah.
 And one that's been in existence for a long time. Right. The catch is that when you opt into paying an annual car insurance fee on a quarterly basis, you're also assessed a fee. Right.
 So, you know, anyway. It's interesting to me. Sometimes some of my bills, actually, it's cheaper to pay it monthly, and I don't know what's in it for the. I need to switch to your car insurance. Okay. The bottom of page two, top of page three, I just want to highlight and thank Commissioner Fish and CBO for some process improvements that I think really made real some of the suggestions from the Blue Ribbon Commission in terms of active engagement.
 of the city council with the outreach players. I did want to put the combined rate increase in context. I mean, the key point there is,
 The overall trend of utility rates, CUB has a long history of taking a look at energy rates and cable and other rates, is upward. The Portland rate of increase is higher than some and lower than others, but higher.
 So leveling off or dropping is very much the exception, not the rule. One exception that I noted is natural gas prices, which is related to fracking, which of course the catch there is a lot of environmental costs are not being factored in. But I should have added from the earlier conversation about the solid waste issue,
 So that's really great, too. So the rest of page three just focuses on some updates. Last year I identified a few things, and so these highlight something from both the Water Bureau and BES in terms of retail
 estimating retail water use and the stormwater system plan, some real advances. I kind of highlighted some concerns a year ago, and I'm seeing really positive movement. On that last item on page three, related to the CBO review of the BES and PBOT maintenance operations interagency agreement, this came up last year and –
 CBO took on the work of angels in terms of taking a look at this topic. They've made some progress. It would be really great if they could make that a higher priority so that their findings could be incorporated into the next budget development process.
 Then on the following page, kind of next steps, I mean, or key next steps, the top two items related to the Water Bureau and possible new approach regarding the Bull Run hydropower, I'll let you read as well as
 a continued identification on the BES side of needing to update some fairly old cost allocation studies. Something I mentioned a year ago and came up recently with the pub is getting ahead of the curve on the
 June 30, 2017, some sunset of the Clean River Rewards program. But I just wanted to mention that I am now thinking in terms of like that actually would benefit by being a discussion within the broader context of financial incentives. And there's some discussion of that on the bottom of page 4 and page 5. One quick thing about the Clean River Rewards assessment is that
 I think there particularly needs to be kind of an equity lens in that review. I mean, it's a significant benefit, but relatively small percentages of single-family households take it, which just means who's not, and what are the fairness concerns? So the last several pages kind of outline what I see as kind of two approaches here.
 to trying to lower the slope of rate increases. I mean, I think the, like I mentioned, the overall trend is upward. I think the question is, is that, you know, is how steep that upward trend is. One approach,
 which CUB has been doing all along, is diligent review of CIP planning and the first-year entries. And so that helped kind of identify the biogas and the organic waste. On other topics, it also comes into play. And this is particularly important given that so much of the rates for the next several years are really low.
 There's not a lot of wiggle room because they're a reflection of decisions made longer ago, as has been noted by other speakers. But I also wanted to just highlight, you know, another approach, which I think has some pros and cons. And so partly I wanted to talk about this to get your input on this.
 you know, the pros and cons. But it's what I call the working backwards. And so the idea is to pick some future year, like 10 years out, like, you know, fiscal year 25, 26, and work backwards to see how planning, CIP planning as well as plans for O&M spending in both bureaus would need to change. If there was a request now to, like, take a look at some, that project future combined rate
 and just say, well, what would happen if you nudged it down? And I'm not talking about nudging it down dramatically because there's some reality here. But even nudging it down, I could say half percent just theoretically. So...
 Obviously, that process requires a really thorough understanding of the rate-making process, just the current forecast, the whole forecasting, as well as a recognition that this would be a lot of work for the bureaus. And it also is, but as part of evaluating the merit of doing this, I kind of put together this chart based on information from CBO.
 on the kind of the page six on like, well, it's now the actual rate increase percentages for the next fiscal year and then kind of what's expected with the combined bill figure as well. So, yes.
 That illustrates that for the next five years, you know, the current guidance of keep under 5% looks doable. More challenging in that fiscal year 2019-2020, but probably still definitely in the ballpark. I mean, I put asterisks there.
 In the context of the, on the chart about the higher water bureau increases, because, you know, BES is kind of more in this steady, stabilized. And so the asterisks just kind of highlight, like, what we're getting, which is the Willamette River Crossing, Washington Park, and then, like was mentioned earlier, the beginning of the whole Portland building.
 So that table and the information above then, I think, indicates that a more significant question is what the bureaus could tell us about their financial projections for the next five years. And so –
 Cecilia and Jonas were kind enough to, you know, give me some information on that score. I want to highlight that forecasting is really challenging, especially for the Water Bureau. But it looks like on the BS side, they're going to continue with that 3.25%. On the water side, it's,
 you start to see over the next five years that peak of in 1920 kind of started to taper down. It seems like that is going to continue downward and then level off in the ballpark of their increase for the upcoming fiscal year, which would mean a combined bill continuing in this 5%, a little under 5% kind of that we're seeing now. So I want to really stress that...
 These are very initial long-term projections, so they're preliminary. And as well as any of these projections could change significantly, especially the farther out you go, if some changes,
 major shift in policy. And like the one I want to highlight, because I think it really helps bring it home, is, you know, if the city of Portland lost its cryptosporidium exemption, you'd be talking about having to build, be, well, regulators telling the city to build a new water treatment plant. And then you need, you know, all the other projections. So I
 But it's still, you know, if these, if after getting more refined long-term cost projections from BS are still close to these initial estimates, and both sets of rates then begin to stabilize in this
 fiscal year 21, 22, I think this working backwards approach could still be useful, but I think it also helps to put into perspective just how big a problem there is. I think people start to see those water percentage increases. It's like, oh, that's going to continue on and on, and it doesn't look like it's going to happen. So I think it's still a valuable exercise because I think anything we can do to nudge down that rate of increase –
 But I wanted to map this out to get some, just to lay it out there and get some feedback in terms of how valuable this exercise might be, especially because, as I already have indicated, it would be a big project for the both bureaus in terms of staff time. And obviously, it's best probably done early.
 So, well, two things. It needs to be viewed as a long-term project. It's not something that, you know, the bureaus could, like, do on a dime. And it probably, you know, they both have in different timelines kind of strategic plan updates kind of underway, and so it could be tied together with that. But, I mean, I was kind of heartened to see that, yes, there's issues, but this analysis was kind of like, you know, some of the past really dramatic increases may well be,
 starting to be behind us. So I was just kind of curious what your thoughts were as much as anything else. Just on that point, Janice, I think the challenge we face is all the unknowns. So we don't know what's going to happen when the Fed starts tightening rates, but if interest rates go up, that has a big impact on both bureaus because they borrow a lot of money. We are continuing to invest heavily in replacing old pipes,
 The public expects us to do that because they don't like them when they break. They don't like sewage backups in their basements. Businesses don't like disruptions. That's a long-term challenge. We, as a city, are making a much more significant commitment to making all of our infrastructure resilient and to make sure that it survives a major seismic event.
 That's always a challenge to talk to the public about because there are some who say we should just roll the dice and hope for the best. But particularly with the investment you've cited with the Willamette River crossing, if we don't make that crossing stronger and we don't fortify that pipe, then in the event of a seismic event, you know, our Westside customers are at risk, and that's unacceptable. And then, of course, it's the regulatory environment. You mentioned cryptosporidium and maintaining our variants.
 But, you know, every year we read of a different set of issues that the federal government is tackling. This year it's water quality. And mercifully, we don't have a lead problem in our source water or our pipes, but there are homes, because of the age of their plumbing, that have issues. And the federal government is grappling with what's the appropriate level of regulation and who should pay for what. So those are all variables.
 One thing that I'm pleased with in your analysis and the feedback we've gotten from the public is I think we're hitting just about the right balance now of new investments. People expect this system, the aging infrastructure, to be updated and maintained, and they expect us to prepare for the big one. And we can't do that just investing at the rate of inflation. But I like your idea of going to the out years and coming back. Yeah.
 And I also continue to think we should take a look at why in water our forecast, the actual is significantly below the forecast on a regular basis, whereas at BES they tend to be very close. I think we are making different assumptions in both bureaus, and I think that's also part of a communications challenge. We have to make sure the public understands the differences.
 We appreciate all your thoughtful recommendations, and this is the second year in a row where your recommendations to the mayor and to the commissioner in charge have resulted in a lowering of rates. So thank you very much. And the other wild card, and I think you mentioned this, but just to emphasize it,
 I talked earlier about the growth of the city. It's not just in the city. Hillsboro just passed 100,000 people on the same census. And some of our regional partners are doing crazy things like drinking the Willamette. But we may have more wholesale customers that are thirstier. And that spreads our costs over a larger basis if they choose to drink bull run water.
 Especially if some of those other adjoining water systems, because of their actions, are starting to see Portland water could look cheaper and cheaper as time goes on compared to the, you know, because...
 If you're building a pipe across Washington County and down to Wilsonville, you're also spending a lot of money. We keep hearing about all these climate refugees coming here. We have the two largest water supplies in the state, the well water and the bull run. We have an abundance of water, and frankly, Mayor,
 I think it's going to be part of our competitive advantage as a region going forward. And if we can convince our existing wholesale customers to stay connected to the system and then grow our business, as you suggest, with the population growth in the region, that's great news for Portland rate payers because we're a fixed-cost system and we'll be able to pass those savings on to our rate payers. And in that regard, something I was monitoring from the Water Bureau's perspective was –
 you know, they go through, you know, as part of the contract with the wholesale customers, there is a whole cost allocation audit process that was completed this last year, and I was, you know, kind of monitoring that. And I think it resolved various issues satisfactorily. I think it really illustrates, you know, good working relationships with the adjoining wholesale customers, and I think hopefully will be part and parcel of maintaining those kinds of connections. Okay.
 So just another good thing that the Water Bureau is doing. Other questions for Janice? We really appreciate your role in the process. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mayor, that completes the formal presentation. Let's see. We have signed up for testimony. So two people signed up. Please come on up. Our Dee White and Ron Langford. Come on up, please. Welcome, Dee. Good afternoon. Thanks for hanging out with us. Patience. Patience.
 come on up come up we're just on water rates right water and sewer rates right now okay all right well you're free to make one go ahead please come on come on up sir you get a chance to speak that's all right sir um i've been a partner in there for 64 years and my generation has been here since it was founded
 I don't like any other water than bull run water, and I've drank it all over the world. So I would say and recommend that you advertise or emphasize the fact that it's good, clean water, and doesn't give you worms, because I haven't been sick from it, not once. And I've got seven children, 28 grandchildren, and they're all healthy because of bull run water. So I would lean towards the human side of what water really is to us,
 than what the commercial or the academic or the financial side is. We're going to pay for it anyways. I lived in St. John's. We paid 80% of the municipal taxes out there since I was a kid, and we're still doing it because we're blue-collar people. We work hard, and we do the right thing, and we're honest.
 And that's all I've got to say. I wasn't going to say that because I've got something else. No, we appreciate you saying it. Thank you very much. Thank you for saying it. And, by the way, you know who said that recently, who was here? It was the Whitmer brothers. Oh, yeah. That's right. They make good beer out of that water. They have expanded their facility here, and they have cited the Bull Run water as the secret of their success. So thank you for highlighting that. Might be useful. I have some personal nature if I could take five minutes of your time, sir. All right. Thank you so much for coming. Appreciate it.
 I'm Dee White. I live off of Foster Road. What I have to say will take more than three minutes, so I'm just going to hit the high points you all have. I sent in my comments earlier. Five points I wanted to talk about. The first and most important being the request for another $65 million in capital improvement projects because of the increased cost of Washington Park reservoirs. On page 14 of the document.
 It stated, the biggest change in the fiscal year five-year request is related to the need to mitigate geotechnical issues and provide adequate seismic resilience. Translated, this means dismantling and excavating the steep ravine that surrounds the open reservoirs combined with blowing up the intact secured reservoir basins could potentially trigger the ancient, currently stable landslide, which will put the people of Portland at great risk.
 Therefore, we need another $65 million to mitigate this potential catastrophe. At this point, we're looking at yet another boondoggle, much like Powell Butte, but in the middle of the city's Crown Jewel Park. It's sheer lunacy. The Water Bureau knew it was going to cost way more than the original $62 million.
 And the reservoirs are not failing. They're not in danger. And they can be beautiful and accessible, again, for a fraction of the cost, which has now been revised to $170 million annually.
 $170 million. Three months after the much contested decision was made by council, the Corn Forth Geotechnical Report came out, which added the $100 million and two years to the four-year construction schedule.
 This stupid, dishonest decision to demolish is being challenged in courts by the citizens. I've attached in my testimony the Court of Appeals, the opening argument to the Court of Appeals, which was argued two days ago. There's no evidence that the current reservoirs are either in danger or are a danger to the public. The demolition itself will put the public at risk.
 and the end result of a closed system will seriously threaten the public health of rate payers and their families. Even the skeptical pub stated on page 5, while the Bureau has engaged in significant research and planning to mitigate potential risk, those activities, as well as the evaluation of alternatives, cost increases to date, and ongoing project monitoring need to be restored and refilled.
 The second thing is this lab y'all want to build. You want to bring in the cryptosporidium testing in-house for $130,000 and hire two people for the whopping combined salaries of $231,000. The reason y'all gave is because there's a reduction in labs across the country. Right now y'all are shipping 10 liters a week across the country, and obviously since the labs are declining –
 crypto testing isn't that big of a deal. I guess I'll just have to stop. All right. Well, thank you so much. Appreciate it. I know we've got your letter, so thank you. Anyone else that wants to speak today on this?
 all right here that concludes our presentation and this is not emergency that this goes he's both paths passed to a second reading at the same time as the rest of these two weeks correct okay thank you again I just want to thank our our teams for their outstanding work and it looks like we have a 15 minute break I think we do and we'll come back at 4 o'clock to talk about transportation so a recess till then
 So we got a bullseye problem. I'm not sure if you all heard about it yet. But there's elevated levels of lead evacuating the . Speaking of things that shouldn't be in the air, therefore, an open reservoirs that we would create a second. Well, I wish Ted, on election night, said he was going to focus on clean air and clean water. I wish he had kept the clean water out, because I've mentioned a couple of times
 then the council will come back to order and we'll take up you want these two together Commissioner probably do right yes 531 and 532 together please 531 in
 Increase the Portland Bureau of Transportation Procurement Authority for the bike share system not to exceed $3,750,000. And 532, authorize Portland Bureau of Transportation to enter into agreements with non-city host for bike town bike share stations. Commissioner Havoc. Thank you.
 Kelly, the first item is just about the fact that we are going to have a bigger, a larger number of bikes than we thought when we first looked at our procurement authorization because Nike gave us $10 million. So we need to expand our procurement authorization to buy bikes to take advantage of the full $10 million or something more or less like that. Steve?
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick. I'll just do an opening to remind you what we did the last time we were here and what we're doing right now. So when we came to you last time in September, we came to you with a motivate contract. That was a contract with our operator. At that time, we did not have a sponsor in hand.
 So we estimated the amount of capital funding and procurement authority we would need at that time, and we estimated at that time it would be $2.175 million.
 Since then, I think you've all heard, we did secure a sponsor where Nike has exceeded our expectations in both the dollar amount of their sponsorship, as well as, frankly, the leverage that working with a Fortune 100 company brings to the program. So we are, for the first item, simply coming back to you to ask questions.
 for your permission to increase the amount of capital expenditures that we spend on that contract. And I think I'm going to hand it over to Steve White-McBeth to,
 to talk about a little bit more. Thank you, Margie. Thank you, Council. Before I begin, I wanted to recognize Dorothy Mitchell, who's the Portland General Manager for Motivate. She's sitting behind us. Dorothy, from our operator Motivate, will be handling all the day-to-day operations of operating the system. Dorothy comes to us with a really strong background in both business and transportation, which is a really nice fit for bike share, and that included a short stint with people out working on transportation funding issues. We're very glad to have her.
 Dorothy on board. So I'll just speak, I guess, first to the first item before you, which is to increase the procurement authority for Peabot from 2.175 million to 3.75 million. And that increased authority allows Peabot to do two things. One, it allows us to increase the size of our system from 600 bicycles, which is what we came to you in September with a proposal to do, to 1,000 bicycles. And that expansion is all based on the Nike sponsorship proposal.
 a portion of the Nike sponsorship dollars and additionally to that should we secure additional sponsors the increased authority allows us to increase the system by an additional roughly 100 bicycles without further council action and I should just specify there that that is just a flexibility that is nothing that we have planned right now at this time it would just allow us to have a discrete expansion without coming back to council for more so
 I just want to be clear that this added procurement authority does no changes to the business model that came before you, nor the contract that came before you in September. That increased procurement authority would not imply or allow us to use city funds toward day-to-day operation of the system. All of this would be through additional sponsorship funds.
 And so that was kind of what I wanted to say about that. I think we're going to take, if I understand correctly, Mayor, the two items separately. So I'll be happy to take any questions from Council. Okay. Questions. Great. That was quick. Okay. Anyone want to speak on either of these items? No one signed up.
 Signed up and then they're both going to go Thank you mayor So the second crack council ordinance allows people to enter into licensing agreements with public or private property owners That agree to host a station on their property. So we'll have 100 stations when we launch. I
 excuse me, and the vast majority of these stations are going to be on city-owned property. We estimate that we'll have about five stations, five or less stations that will be on non-city property. The vast majority of those would be on either TriMet property or Portland State University property. Okay.
 We can see in a couple of instances that we might have a private property owner. We don't have any of those that we're anticipating at this time, but we could foresee that happening in the future. So the hosting agreement is a – there's no money passing from party to party. It's purely something that is done for the mutual benefit of both parties, that being both the case with TriMet and Portland State.
 And these are temporary agreements just for the life of the term that the two parties come to agreement on. So essentially this ordinance would provide PBOT the authority to enter into licensing agreements with the station hosts. And we've provided in the packet kind of a template of that agreement that would go forth. Sounds reasonable to me. Again, no one wants to speak on this item. It doesn't sound like it.
 So you'll let us know later who those are once those are negotiated, right? Yes, sir. Will those have to come back to council?
 No, this would give us the authority to move forward. It gives you the ability to go ahead and contract. Yes, thank you. And again, at this time, we anticipate three stations that would be on Trima property and one on Portland State University property. If the money is changing hands, then it doesn't have to come back to council. That's correct. That's correct. Got it. Okay. Thank you both very much. Anything further on either of these items from you, Commissioner? All right. Well, that might set a new record. And those two items will come back for a second meeting next week, and we're adjourned. Thank you. We'll be back in two weeks.
 Two weeks. Everything's two weeks. Thank you, Carla. Wow, I know. I should have remembered that as well. Two weeks from now. Thank you. Next week because we don't have a quorum? Because this is Thursday and the agenda's already done with the new early filing process. You're blaming Commissioner Fritz for this? I'm taking credit for that, yes. Credit, blame, whatever it is, that's how it works. Thank you. We're adjourned. Thank you, Carla, for keeping us straight. I'm going out with Debra tonight.