All right, I think we should get started. You ready, Carla? Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the May 11th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 Here. Heltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Hales? Here. Oh, there she is. Good morning, Commissioner. Welcome, everyone. We have our usual council business today, but we also have some special guests and some special business because it's Rose Festival season, and we'll turn to that in a moment. We'll take the first-time certans, and then we'll move on to communications. But first, we want to welcome the students, the third-grade students from Sunnyside. Good morning. We make an exception and applaud the students here.
 uh...
 I had a chance to talk with them a little bit before council about the history of the building, and they stumped me with a couple of questions. So they've been studying hard both history and geology. So when you stump the mayor on the first try, you know that you're learning well. So smart kids from Sunnyside, we're really happy to have you here. One of the questions that I didn't know the answer to was, where did the sandstone for this building come from? Because there's not sandstone in Oregon. So there you go. Whoever gets the answer first can stump somebody else.
 and then of course we have our Rose Festival Court this morning and we'll get to those two items next because it's that time of the year and we're very happy about that so would you please read items 474 and 475 please 474 presentation from the 2016 Portland Rose Festival and Rose Festival Court
 And 475, grant revocable permits to the Portland Rose Festival Foundation to perform activities relating to Portland Rose Festival annual celebration from May 27 through June 12, 2016.
 Well, the Rose Festival is everybody's favorite time of year, and certainly mine as well. And Nancy's here. We had a chance to meet the court this morning, and we're looking forward to hearing from them. But let's bring up Jeff Curtis, executive director of the Rose Festival, and Frank Chen to tell us about this year's celebration.
 Good morning. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Fellow commissioners, I'm Jeff Curtis, the CEO of the Rose Festival Foundation. It's a pleasure to be up here and speak with you this morning. And you're going to hear a little bit about the Rose Festival itself from Frank and the court. But I'd
 I thought I would just take some time to paint a little different perspective. I've done this job for 12 years in front of fellow councils, and I never take it for granted. It's always a big day in our cycle of planning to come in front of council and give you a preview and ultimately have the ordinance that essentially gives us the green light to produce these world-class parades. But I'm going to take a moment to thank you all for coming.
 I thought I would just take a brief moment and share with you about the role of special events in general and do it from a personal perspective because many people don't know that I have the privilege of being on the world board of the International Festival and Events Association. So I've had...
 a role of traveling to different festivals across the country, a few across the globe, including Boryeon Korea for the Mudd Festival to a carnival in France. And while I work in this capacity as the CEO to produce this world-class festival that we're all very proud of, over 12 years I've gathered a lot of knowledge and helped the industry in different ways. I'm proud of that. But one of the things that's grew on me that's culminating really this year is,
 with my friends at the Rose Hustle Foundation's board support is that there's an incredible place for special events in society. And it's this movement that special events are not just special, they are essential.
 Some of the best cities across the globe embrace special events as part of their culture. And it's more importantly the people. It gives people this great pride in their community to come together and celebrate the great quality of life, where they live, how they live.
 and essentially creates a healthier economy and a healthier society. So that's a movement that you're going to hear more about from the Roast Festival here in Portland, but it's going to grow. We're having conversations nationally and internationally about the role special events can play in the growth and development of cities and communities because there's a place to play. And there's no other greater example than from a historical perspective that I'd like to share something from 1905.
 The great Mayor Hales, it was the great Mayor Harry Lane, who's the father of the Rose Festival, but he knew this concept over 100 years ago. And it's humbling to read it and to understand it and to have this role that we play every day to produce the Rose Festival.
 But this is – he had this statement that he read to the Board of Governors after the big Lewis and Clark event that was actually – the Rose Festival was born out of in 1905. The actual Rose Festival started in 1907. But the Oregon Daily Journal posted something, essentially his speech. I'm going to do an excerpt of it. I'm going to read it to you because actually –
 This year, the Rose Festival's official charity is SMART. And so in honoring them, we have a program called Oregon Reads Aloud. I'm going to take a moment to read an excerpt from the Oregon Daily Journal from October of 1905 from Mayor Lane, who was speaking to the Board of Governors from the Lewis and Clark Centennial Celebration. And it reads as follows, and this is his words.
 It's nothing more than a wild dream, but I believe if the people would take hold of this proposition, it would be one of the greatest things ever attempted. And keep in mind, he's speaking in the context of the creation of a Rose Festival. This would be the greatest permanent advertising for the city that was ever attempted and make Portland's fame as the Rose City worldwide.
 In this way, Portland would become famous. Instead of going to other places, people would come to Portland. All that would be necessary would be to get them started, and they would come and bring their friends for the summer. What Los Angeles is a winter resort, Portland, with its delightful climate, would be a summer resort. Let the civic improvement spirit take hold by the people. Let them plant roses, which grow here in the summer, but with little care.
 Let them park in the streets and plant hedges of fir trees. We will have a successful, beautiful, green and red city. Green with fir and red with roses. Let the people paint their houses and continue public improvements. Let the great railroads make this a center and a great seaport that will soon have the most wonderful and most famous city in the United States." And I read that with this great sense of pride that is my role
 as CEO and the staff and the board that puts on this festival, that's why we do what we do. And that's a movement that we're having conversations with cities across the country. And I think Mr. Lane had it right. So with that said, we work with obviously a great team of volunteers. I want to introduce Frank Chin, volunteer, been on our board for a number of years, the president of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation. Frank. Thank you, Jeff.
 My name is Frank Chin. I'm president of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation. Good morning, Mayor Hales and city commissioners. I am pleased and honored to be here representing the board and staff of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation. First, I would like to take a little time to acknowledge one of your colleagues.
 valuable and are valuable board member, Ms. Leslie Goodloe, who is chair of our court and also works for the city. You guys should be proud of her because the way she represents our organization and your organization is outstanding. So please acknowledge Leslie. Last summer, we chose a really fun theme for the 2016 Rose Festival, excessive celebration. What does that mean?
 Excessive celebration, think of excessive celebration as showing off your happy dance. There's no penalty for showing your favorite, your excitement for your favorite events. We even have a special referee this year to encourage everyone to have a great time. In just a minute, I will bring the Rose Festival court up to give you a preview of this year's Portland Rose Festival. But before I do, I have three specific things to share on the overall status of the Portland Rose Festival.
 First, the Rose Festival is stable. The private sector continues to support the nonprofit Portland Rose Festival Foundation through corporate sponsorship, attending events, and making charitable donations. On the corporate side, five premier sponsors stand out. They are Fred Meyer, Portland General Electric, Spirit Mountain Casino, Alaska Airlines, Regence Blue Cross Blue Shield of Oregon.
 Second, the Rose Festival is sustainable. This year, we are celebrating the 109th Portland Rose Festival, the 40th anniversary of the Starlight Parade, and the 20th anniversary of our world-famous Cleanest and Greenest Parade cleanup program. And third, the Rose Festival is successful. We continue to be the largest civic celebration on the West Coast.
 and we garner international attention and accolades from the international events industry. And as the official festival of the City of Portland, we create huge successes for the city itself, generating over $70 million in economic impact annually. Now, I would like to bring up this year's Rose Festival Court. As they come up, here are a few interesting statistics about...
 this incredible group of young leaders. We have 12 seniors and 3 juniors on the court. They have an average GPA of 3.69. They play a total of 13 different sports competitively, ranging from soccer to taekwondo. Some were born right here in Portland, but an equal amount of them were born elsewhere across the country and three different continents.
 All 15 love the city of Portland. Council, I present the 2016 Rose Festival Court to give you a preview of the 2016 Portland Rose Festival. We are the 2016 Rose Festival Court presented by the United Community Credit Union. We'd like to introduce ourselves and tell you what's happening during this year's Rose Festival. Emily, and I'm from St. Mary's Academy.
 My Rose Festival experience has always been the Spirit Mountain Casino Grand Floral Parade. Growing up, my father would wake up early and drive me downtown to find the best spot for parade viewing. Don't miss the parade that started it all, Saturday, June 11. Watch for dancing groups, amazing horses, marching bands, and all floral floats, including the new mini floats, which represent communities from around the region.
 You can watch it from the street, inside Veteran Memorial Coliseum, on KP TV, Fox Channel 12. Olivia. I'm Olivia from Grant High School. When I'm not in the studio taking dance classes, I'm outside with my friends, hiking around Oregon, enjoying the beautiful scenery. Music.
 Hike or dance your way down the Grand Floral Parade route at the Pre-Parade Bank of the West Grand Floral Walk. Wear a funky costume or a branded t-shirt as you walk the walk past hundreds of thousands of spectators cheering you on. There's no better way to get your 10,000 steps done. I'm Katie from Roosevelt High School. Some things in my life are essential, like doing my morning yoga, ceramics, or playing the flute.
 Other things in my life are worth celebrating, like cheering on my favorite team at Providence Park with 20,000 other screaming fans. This year, the Portland Rose Festival is merging both worlds to spread the word about excessive celebration. Because everybody needs celebration in their life. Show your support for the festival when you use hashtag eventsareessential on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Mariella! I'm Mariella, and I'm from Central Catholic High School.
 When it comes to Rose Festival events, my favorite is City Fair on the Waterfront. I love visiting new vendors and trying delicious food. Bring your family and friends to the fair for three weekends of fun. Make crafts in the Kid Zone, pet a baby tiger at Walk on the Wild Side, and hop on your favorite carnival rides. It all starts on May 27th with Opening Night Fireworks, presented by Oregon Live.
 Melissa! I'm Melissa and I'm from Park Road High School. Athletics are my passion. I play water polo, compete on swim and tennis teams, and have been awarded Athlete of the Year three years in a row. Bring out the athlete in you and you register your four-stom to the sixth annual Jim Neal Memorial Golf Tournament. This tournament supports the Portland Roads Festival Foundation on Friday, August 12th at the East Millenium Golf Course. We'll see you on the green!
 Stephanie. I'm Stephanie from David Douglas High School and I'm in my element when I'm working on theater productions such as Seussical, the Musical, and The Audience.
 Embrace the actor in you when you join the Rose Festival's Character Cloud Corps. Brush up on your cloud now and you could be a member of the Cloud Corps in 2017, marking the 10th year of this community program. Led by the beloved Cloud Prince, this group of colorful comics is sure to bring laughter and style to audiences everywhere. I'm Brianna from Jefferson High School.
 I love spending time with my friends. We never miss a school game. Always there to show our demo pride. Show pride for your community by helping keep the streets of Portland clean and green. 2016 marks the 20th year the Portland Royal Festival has been named the cleanest and greenest festival. Working hard to keep the post-parade streets of Portland. Look for brand new clown characters at the festival. The Green Stooges, showing you how to clean up with a laugh. Abby. I'm Abby, and I'm from Franklin High School.
 Each year, my birthday falls right around the same time as my favorite Rose Festival event, the PGE Solve Starlight Parade. There is no better place to have a birthday party. This year marks the 40th anniversary of this glowing nighttime parade. That's 40 years of illuminated floats, special entries, and marching bands. See it downtown or watch it live on KPTV, Fox Channel 12, on Saturday, June 4th at 8.30 p.m.
 Katelyn. I'm Katelyn from Cleveland High School. In my spare time, I enjoy watching football with my friends and hitting the slopes on Mount Hood Meadows with my family. Invite your friends and family to come join us to see who will be crowned this year's Queen of Rosaria. The Queen's Coronation, presented by Unitas Community Credit Union, takes place on June 11th at 830 a.m. at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Watch the crowning take place right before the grand floral parade. We appreciate your support.
 Abigail. I'm Abigail and I'm from Madison.
 I enjoy visiting downtown Portland and taking pictures of the buildings and the city streets. Make your way downtown for a series of concerts taking place this season through the Rose Zone. Join us for the second ever Post Prairie Starlight After Party or take another concert's partner with your favorite radio stations. The brew show is featuring Chevelle, the World's Country Fest Headline by Euston Corbin, Granger Smith, or King's H2O show Everclear. Get ready to rock and water from Park.
 Ariana! I'm Ariana from Westview High School representing the Metro West area. I love going to the Fred Meyer Jr. Parade and seeing smiling kids take part in this truly special Portland tradition. Show your support for local youth by joining us for this year's parade on Wednesday, June 8th in the Hollywood District. Watch floats, community groups, baton twirlers, marching bands, and dance teams go by. Can't see it in person? Watch the telecast live on KPTV's Fox Channel 12.
 I'm Grace from Centennial High School, representing the Metro East area. In the future, I plan to work in the nonprofit or public service sector, focusing on education. In fact, my fellow students and I started our own nonprofit, which operates a mobile food pantry around our school district.
 Did you know the Portland Rose Festival Foundation is also a non-profit organization? You can show your support by becoming a friend of the festival and receive a variety of benefits to enjoy during this year's celebration. Or, simply make a tax-deductible donation at rosefestival.org. Esty! I'm Esty from Wilson High School. I'm proud of the goals I've achieved in my life, like becoming ASB Vice President, joining the National Honor Society, and competing in cross-country.
 Set your goal to participate in a different kind of cross-country race, the shortest half marathon yet. Join us on Sunday, May 29th for the Point One Run, a 528-foot race inside the gates of City Hall. And stay tuned for more information about the official Rose Festival half marathon coming soon. Thank you for hosting the 2016 Rose Festival Court presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. We'll see you at the Rose Festival!
 Thank you, ladies. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Great to have you here. We're looking forward to the festival very much. Ah, okay. Ah, you have pins for us. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Very kind. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. And welcome to the family. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 All right. We do need to take action on one of these items because it's actually a revocable permit. So is there anyone else that wants to speak on item number 475? If not, then let's take a vote, please, to approve that ordinance. Thanks.
 It's a wonderful annual ritual, Mayor, and every year we get to witness these remarkable young women who compete for this honor and then come and share the story. So thank you, ladies, and congratulations. And I think all of us will be with you on Saturday for the St. John's Parade where we get to know you even better. So I'm very pleased today to support this resolution or ordinance. Aye. Mr. Olesman. Thank you, Court, for being here today. We appreciate it. Aye.
 So I have to do a special shout out to Grace Ramstad of the court, who among her other civic activities is working with doctors and other youth advocates and with my office to try to persuade school districts to push high school start times to later in the morning so that teenagers can get to sleep their bodies need. Thank you, Grace. Prince.
 This is one of my favorite council items of the year, and thank you for coming to show Portlanders that there's a lot of great women in our public schools and our private schools who... This is just... The things that you shared with us today are just a smattering of the things that you do, I know. I was taking a picture of Ariana from Westview because my son Luke teaches there, and so she's nodding, yeah. So it's... And then I saw...
 Abigail at the Multnomah Youth Commission's candidate fair. So these young women are going to be everywhere for the next several weeks for the Rose Festival. And I know that they're going to be coming back and enriching Portland society after they've gone to college and done great things.
 I love the theme of excessive celebration. That's always seemed to me to be the silliest of the college football rules, that you can't celebrate when you do something really great. So this is something that's really great, and it is a festival. Reference was made to the father of the festival. I believe I'm the mother of saying that it should be the Portland's official festival, and this is our only festival that we recognize as a city festival.
 event. And so I'm looking forward to working with the foundation and the next mayor and the police with making sure we can bring the half marathon back next year. And I know the others on the council share that goal. Next year is the centennial of the Washington Park Rose Garden. It was great to hear the reading of the
 discussion about how this could become a destination. Indeed, there's lots of great things to do in Portland's parks and everywhere around Portland in association with the Rose Festival. And as I'm reminded every time the mayor reads a proclamation, this is the City of Roses, and we should be celebrating it and enjoying it. It's great that people can come down to the parade. I encourage everybody to join the Grand Floral Walk. It is indeed the best way to get one's 10,000 steps.
 for two reasons, well, three reasons. One, you get to watch the queen being crowned at the beginning. Second, you get the steps, and people have been waiting for hours and hours for something to happen on the parade route after they've staked out their spot, so they're so glad to see anybody. So they just completely go...
 Very, very happy to see walkers regardless. And then third of all, they save seats at the end, so you get really the best spot in the parade because the seats are saved for you, and you get to see the entire parade walk past at the end. So it's very, very fun. I'll look forward to seeing...
 the court, probably the St. John's Parade this Saturday, and various other events around town. This is not just a downtown event. This is an event or series of events that brings joy throughout our city, and I am very, very proud to support it and to vote aye on this resolution. Nails.
 Well, the Rose Festival is not only a great tradition, but it's just a great event for us as a family of neighbors and friends. It's great in several ways, I think. One is that it does, as the mayor in 1905 suggested, bring a lot of visitors to towns.
 And we had this experience a couple months ago with the World Indoor Track and Field event. We had it with the MLS All-Star Game as well. And when people come to our city, we see our home through fresh eyes, and they are dazzled by our city.
 And they were at those events, and I know they will be at Rose Festival. And so they see the beauty of our city and its many assets in a way that maybe we take for granted. So that's always a blessing. Secondly, it is great to come together as a community. And the Rose Festival provides lots of different kinds of activities. Some people want to go to a concert, and they will. Right.
 Some people love a parade. I do, and I always will be there. And then some people love the carnival activities on the waterfront. And so a whole variety of Portlanders get to experience the Rose Festival in the ways they like the best. So I think the diversity of activity that you provide is one of the strengths of the effort and of the organization. And then finally, this celebration of young leaders. Thank you.
 is something that all of us as leaders need to cultivate and encourage so these young women are part of our city's future we're happy about that we're happy about the opportunity to get to know you and to lift you up as leaders in our community we're very proud of you so looking forward to the whole season very much very happy to approve this and make it official aye thank you all very much we'll see you on saturday okay
 We need to move on to our regular agenda. We'll start with council communications. What are you going to do with our communications? I said we're going to start with council communications. We're going to do that first, and then we're going to go on to our regular agenda. First, before we do that, I have a request to pull two items from the consent calendar to the regular calendar, and those are 485 and 486. Okay.
 Anything else that needs to be pulled through the regular calendar? Okay. And with that, we'll take the first of the consent items, please, item 469. Request of Eric Fruits to address council regarding crisis intervention. Mr. Fruits called. He is not able to make it. Oh, okay. 470 then. Request of Trina Sutton to address council regarding proposed transitional community. She also has to reschedule.
 Okay, 471. Request of Michael O'Connor to address council regarding the city's event permit for last Thursday on Alberta. Come on up. Morning. Morning. Again, my name is Michael O'Connor. This will be the third public testimony I've given in regards to the urgent policy issues regarding last Thursday on Alberta Street.
 The last time was April 29th of last year, where we presented to the City of Portland 56 endorsements we received for our planning system from the businesses inside Alberta Street Closure.
 We were very excited to work with the City of Portland at that point. Mayor Hales said he was excited to work with me. However, every request to meet with the City of Portland by Artists United was refused.
 However, we wanted to try to work with the City of Portland anyway, so we came up with the idea to progressively take on last Thursday's public safety expenses, starting with portable restrooms starting in September.
 I gave testimony again, I believe it was September 16th, to give an additional offer to the City of Portland where Artists United could go acquire $50,000 in event sponsorship contracts if the City of Portland could make a pledge to cover the expense of police officer overtime. I ended up waiting outside of the meeting to try to speak with Mayor Hales to request a meeting in which he said he would meet with me.
 Again, however, Chad Stover, the mayor's representative, called me back the next day to say that what the mayor said was just a pleasantry and that his office was not willing to meet with Artists United at this time. In addition, he said that what we were doing with raising money for portable restrooms was a waste of time.
 They refused the $50,000 offer and refused to set any goals or any requirements for any organization to take over the management of last Thursday.
 Since then, Artists United has moved on to work on a buildup for First Friday in Southeast Neighborhoods, which is a very exciting process. Everything is going very well. And so we should have a tested system by next year that could potentially resolve the dispute over last Thursday on Alberta Street.
 But today, I come here as a concerned citizen with a couple questions. Specifically, I'm concerned over people's freedom of speech at Last Thursday on Alberta Street. And I would like to know if the City of Portland is making registration an enforceable requirement for Last Thursday's 2016 season.
 In addition, since the City of Portland has told us for about six years strong that they are looking for an organization to take over the management of last Thursday, what specifically they mean. Thanks for coming. I'll make sure Mr. Stover gets back to you. Is that all? Thank you. Yes. Thanks very much. Okay. Item 472.
 Request of Brad Perkins to address council regarding Southwest Corridor Plan, Oregon Department of Transportation, Oregon Passenger Rail Study, and Cascadia High Speed Rail. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Councilors. I'm Brad Perkins. And first of all, I just want to start with another item.
 I believe the Mayor and the Council members have received testimony on Emanuel Hospital and the need to have Emanuel follow through with their signed commitment to create housing for 300 affordable housing units.
 First, we propose that three blocks of manual property be rezoned from IR to M3. And then NEBA, northeast. Brad, we can't take comp plan testimony now. We can't take comp plan testimony now, only during the comp plan hearings. Okay. Well, then we ask that these organizations, the Urban League, NAACP, NECN, Elliott Neighborhood,
 and Neva get a, you know, work with you, Charlie, in regards to having a meeting so we can actually go before Emanuel Hospital and work out something that's beneficial at all. Okay. So Commissioner Steve Novick and the mayor again, we need to work with Metro and ODOT and the legislature to get planning money to do a better comprehensive transportation plan for the whole region, including southwest Washington.
 All transportation plans that are being done currently are done in silos with limited study area. $2 billion for southwest corridor improvements will not relieve traffic on I-5 north of Tualatin. ODOT's passenger rail EIS study goes to Oregon City via 205 from I-5.
 via Union Pacific right of way to Portland. After UP has told ODOT they will not give any more of their rail capacity through Portland. And ODOT and WSDOT are not currently planning a new corridor over the Columbia River.
 Washington County is doing a new high-level transportation visioning process. None of it has a new connection or corridor from 21726 to a new bridge to Vancouver. Cascadia High Speed Rail Concept Plan relieves bottlenecks on all these corridors, on Twilliger Curves, Zoo Tunnel, and I-5 Bridge.
 Connected TODs with park and kiss-and-rides could be very effective in relieving a place for affordable housing and market rate housing. Eleven minutes to the Rose Quarter from Tualatin. Imagine that. Six minutes from Vancouver to the Rose Quarter. Six minutes from Vancouver to 26 and 217.
 The city and metro and ODOT needs to work with the state legislator to get funding for regional interconnected commuter and intercity high-speed rail studies.
 CHSR has a viable concept as a head start for further study saving millions of dollars and years of planning. See the website, CascadiaHighSpeedRail.com. Any EIS study in the I-5 and 26 corridor should take our CHSR plan seriously, especially that it would invite private money to implement these projects.
 we look forward to having further discussions regarding this yeah thank you very much brent thanks thank you okay item 472 please request of crystal ilianski to address council regarding rent control pge alaska airlines ah
 I've got a stumped-down stumper for you, if you know these little – remember when you were interviewed on OPB, Commissioner Fritz, and they got you – I'm sorry, KABU. The kids had asked questions, and they asked the best questions. But which public building is it right on the waterfront, historic, beautiful building, that the city gave no rent, no taxes over to the Rose Festival, and you're not allowed to access it? It's not public. Anybody? The Eon Building. Okay.
 the eon building down by the waterfront by the hawthorne bridge so my name is um crystal elinsky and uh i got this at the library i represent ten thousand um members of the council the title is not right it should have been uh bernie giusto as you know we've had a long list of funny little sheriff debacles here um and then as far as the rent control issue i'll just
 I'll just point out again, as I've been saying since day one, since I've been coming here and going to all of your other meetings, that we need rent control. And yet on the front page of your paper today, they're talking again about inclusionary zoning, zoning this. So I'll just get that aside because I did try to change the title last week, and they said it was too late. You have to do it the Monday afternoon.
 before the next week. So the funniest and most tragic part of the Multnomah County Sheriff Dan Staten debacle is that he wants, once he retires, to have Mike Reese, former Chief Reese, yes, the one who my mother screamed at on the TV when him and Sam Adams shut down Occupy,
 And he was also running the Meet the Heat the other week for $1,000 a pop. You could see all the war toys that the police play with. And I don't even know why he's still in public service. I mean, last I know, they just ruled that it was unconstitutional to kettle people, and he was wearing his civvies, although he had resigned, retired, whatever. He was at the main police building down there, standing outside and coordinating the entire process.
 Michael Brown protest kettling. So as you know, there have been lawsuits and settlements and everything over that. I want to talk about, also why is Sam Adams, why was he put into this system? But I wanted to talk about the heroes and legacies because I've been reading, I read things like Hillary's book and Ben Bernanke and others like this, that they sit, I like to hear their words that
 For example, we rendered the question of Zelaya in Andorra's moot, or in these great words, you know, I felt like I couldn't move this mountain of poverty away
 So I thought that the people that come here today, we need to give a moment of silence. I know you gave 30 minutes last week to Michelle Munt, who was one of the people that come here regularly, and she passed away two weeks ago. So I would like to dedicate one more minute, especially since you won't be calling the police on me today since there are no children here anymore. Okay.
 We won't be calling the police, but we're not going to take a minute of silence. And thank you very much for coming this morning. So we're going to move on to the next regular item on the calendar, which is 476. Thanks, Crystal. I'm going to do the...
 sorry the consent agenda i'm sorry consent calendar yes i did it again um no other items to withdraw then let's take a vote please on the remainder of the consent calendar fish aye novi aye right aye hails aye okay um item 476 proclaim may 15 2016 to be half a day in portland mr fish would you like to start i've got a proclamation here as well thank you mayor um
 We need four seats. Crystal, you need to leave because we have to bring people up. So please let them come up. Thank you. Mayor, this is a special day in the city of Portland, and we celebrate HAFA Day with a proclamation and some very honored guests. So I'd like to invite our honored guests forward. Tim Boyle, President and CEO of Columbia Sportswear. Andy Thomas, CEO of the Craft Brew Alliance. Kurt Widmer and Rob Widmer.
 Bring up another chair, if you would, please. Make yourselves comfortable. You two have been working together a long time, you know. The way we celebrate really big deals is the mayor issues a proclamation and declares that the entire city will honor someone or an organization for something really neat. And the mayor has issued a proclamation, and I want to tee it up just with some preliminary comments.
 Today, we get the chance to celebrate a great local company, Widmer Brothers, its visionary founders, Kurt and Rob Widmer, and their signature beer. And we honor Kurt on his well-earned retirement. We are so proud that Widmer Brothers calls Portland home. We're proud that Widmer Brothers is one of our largest water customers and that Bull Run Water is one of the keys to their success. And that their signature beer, the Hefeweizen,
 is one of the great American beers. Today, the mayor has given me the great honor of reading a proclamation that he has issued. Then we'll hear from our honored guests, and then we'll take some commentary from the council. Whereas in 1979, home brewing became legalized in Oregon, paving the way for brothers Kurt and Rob Widmer to begin making beer they actually liked. And whereas in 1984, the Widmer brothers quit their jobs and cobbled together their first brewery on Northwest Lovejoy,
 which was filled with retired dairy tanks and vessels intended for nuclear power plants. And whereas on April 2nd, 1984, Widmer Brothers Brewing was officially founded and provided delicious German-influenced altbier and weissenbier to Portlanders. And whereas in 1988, they joined Bridgeport and Portland Brewing Company to launch the Oregon Brewers Festival, which now hosts over 80 breweries and 80,000 people annually.
 And whereas by 1990, they moved to their current location in North Portland and renamed their brewery the Widmer Brothers Brewing Company. And whereas this May 15th marks 30 years from the very first delivery of Widmer Brothers Hefeweizen, the first American-style Hefeweizen, which is still Oregon's best-selling craft beer.
 And whereas over the last three decades, the Widmer Brothers have pioneered Portland's brewing industry using our very own bull run water and have transformed from a small local business into an internationally renowned company. And whereas Widmer Brothers Brewing Company calls Portland home and continues to brew delicious craft beer right here in our community.
 And whereas Kurt Widmer has enjoyed a long and remarkable career as a master of craft brewing, contributing to the history of craft beer and to Portland, and we wish him the best in his retirement. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 15, 2006 to be HIFA Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Mayor, can we suspend the rules? We can. It's here at the Widmer. Thank you.
 At just an appropriate time and place, the way to observe this day would be to have a nice, tall, cold hefeweizen. And I think a lot of us have great memories of what you and your company have done for this city, big and small. Like my brother from Virginia on a sunny day like this on my back porch while we were barbecuing, and he only had industrial beer.
 and I said, help yourself to one of those in the refrigerator and now he drinks craft beer.
 Or the day that you opened your bottling line, and I was there to see that machinery come to life. Wasn't it eight bottles a second, I think, at the first? So the first craft brewery to have a bottling line, it was such an amazing moment to see that thing flying by, filling those bottles. So great memories of what your company's done for the craft beer movement and what you've done for our city, and now with more breweries than any city in the world.
 Look what you started. So it's great to have all of you here this morning. Welcome. Mayor, what better way to kick off this celebration than to have the president and CEO of another great Oregon company join us, and it's my honor to turn it over to Tim Boyle. Mr. Mayor, honored commissioners, I'm tremendously proud to be here today as Kurt's honored by the city of Portland, who proclaims May 11, 2016, to be Heft Day.
 Heff, which as we all know is beer lingo for Hefeweizen, the smooth, opaque, and utterly delicious German-style wheat beer that Kurt and his brother robbed, first brewed at 14th and Lovejoy on May 15th, 1986. Since that malted miracle day, the Widmer Brothers Institution has expanded to include many brands, but none more Portland than Heff.
 In 1990, the brewery moved to its current location and has been expanded many times. So in 2008, Widmer Brothers combined with Red Hook Brewery to form CBA, which is a public listed company here in Portland. In the last eight years alone, CBA slash Widmer Brewers has brewed more than 250 million pints of Heff, which...
 I have consumed at least a portion of. So I'm honored today to have all the members of the board of directors from CBA and members of the management. Why don't we have them stand and be recognized, the board members. Good morning. Welcome. Give them a round of applause. We're here to help honor our founder and our friend, Kurt Widmer.
 So should I turn it over to Andy before we come to the Whitmers? Sure. Real quickly. Andy Thomas is the CEO of the Craft Brew Alliance. Welcome, Andy. Thank you. Mr. Mayor and commissioners, those first drops of HAFA helped create a tidal wave, which is candidly still sweeping across the nation with more than 4,000 active breweries in the U.S. and hundreds more in planning.
 More locally, though, currently, the brewing industry contributes nearly $3 billion to the economy of Oregon, and both directly and indirectly employs nearly 30,000 people. So I think it's fair to say that Curt and Rob's story embodied in HAFA is clearly one worthy of the pioneering spirit of Portland and of Oregon.
 So on behalf of all of the employees and stakeholders of Craft Brew Alliance and Widmer Brothers, I am proud to humbly sit before you and testify to that pioneering spirit of Kurt and Rob that has clearly touched literally thousands and millions beyond their modest beginnings here in the Rose City, Portland. Kurt? Rob? Mr. Mayor, Council Members, good morning. I'm Rob Widmer. Um...
 you know kurt and i are our portland natives and we're really proud of the city portland is recognized throughout the country as birvana and really around the world as a center for excellent beer and brewing and we're extremely proud that we played a role in establishing that reputation and thank you so much for the excellent excellent brewing water kurt welcome good morning
 So, thank you very much, Mr. Mayor and Councilmembers. This is truly an honor. On behalf of Rob and myself, the entire Wiedemere family, our extremely savvy board of directors, and 250 of our colleagues who are back at the brewery making delicious beer, I'm very pleased to accept this recognition. This is very kind of you, and I do appreciate it. As a Portland native, I've always been proud to call Portland home. There's simply no better place to live.
 And fortuitously, there's no better place to be a brewer because there are no more sophisticated, discriminating, and enthusiastic beer drinkers than are found here in Portland. With continuous support from Portland City Government, we are proud of the part Woodward Brothers Safe has played in creating this iconic endeavor. So again, thank you very much personally and from everybody at the brewery too. Gentlemen, thank you. Before we take a picture, it's a tradition to have council members make some comments. So starting with Commissioner Novick.
 Two things. One, I think we should salute Jimmy Carter, who did re-legalize homebrewing, one of his many achievements in the area of human rights. And I also wanted to say that, although since I've gotten old and fat, I've cut down on my beer consumption, I do make exceptions for Hefeweizen. So thank you very much. So my brother used to do homebrews when he was 18. He was not nearly as successful or as delicious as yours.
 I have a question, and that is, as the founders of this brand, we've heard various pronunciations of it this morning. How would you like us to say it, since I'm going to be appearing at Pioneer Courthouse Square on Saturday? I'd like to say it the way you'd like it said. Winner. AFA. AFA. AFA. Thank you. AFA. We're all going to get that. I will certainly get it right on Saturday. And I believe there's a 12 to 5 celebration at Pioneer Courthouse Square on Saturday. Is that correct? And everybody's welcome? Yeah.
 Yet another great – Sunday. Sunday. Well done. Don't come on Saturday. Well, come to Pioneer Courthouse Court on Saturday. I'm sure there's something great going on, but this one's on Sunday. My days are getting – thank you, Commissioner.
 And thank you for the work that you do. And I particularly want to thank you for the restaurant that's next to the brewery. I think that that has also set the standard for good pub food compared with just we're required to have this. So here you are, his French fries or whatever. It certainly has been a favorite from my family for quite some time, and I really appreciate that. Thank you. So obviously not all of our German is up to this. Hefeweizen means half wheat, right? Yeah.
 What's heifa? Heifa is yeast. Yeast, ah. Bites in his wheat. Ah, okay. So, all right, thank you for our education. It's important to know the root origin of these terms that apply to something that we love. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I would just like to say I'm awed to be in the presence of two fantastic homegrown companies, Widmer Brothers and Columbia Sportswear. I mean, your stories are phenomenal. I mean, it's.
 I guess we can thank the demise of the nuclear energy industry for the start of Windmere Brothers. I didn't know that connection before. But you really are two homegrown successes. And we really appreciate everything you've done for us. And Kurt, I've always appreciated the tours you've provided me of your facilities and the opportunity to have lunch with both of you. It's really been meaningful to me over the years. And I wish you all the success in your retirement. I understand. I think I read you're going to be doing a lot of traveling. And that sounds great.
 And I just thank you both companies for your investments in Portland and its people. Thank you. We're going to ask you to stick around a second to take a picture, but I also just want to close first by thanking Liam Frost. Liam, would you stand? Liam was more excited about this day than even the Widmer brothers. And it comes in a very important week in Liam's life because two days ago he was sworn in as a United States citizen. Let's give Liam a round of applause. Thank you.
 And I want to thank Tim Boyle for taking time out of his busy schedule to be here. I visited with Tim a few months ago at Columbia Sportswear, and he and Peter Bragdon and I actually on a Friday afternoon had a beer. And not surprisingly, it was a Hefeweizen, which he serves in the cafeteria of his great complex. Tim, thank you for joining us.
 and to my friends kurt and rob i just want to say in addition to just being great business people you guys are wonderful community members and one of the things i love is that you never seek the limelight about what you do but you do a ton of stuff and in your signature way which is quietly and without without any fanfare and the city really is so proud that you are here and expanding and succeeding and thank you and thank you for the support you give me as the water bureau commissioner
 I know once upon a time you were among those who had a constructive set of criticisms about the way we did our business, and you've become not just great customers but great supporters of our mission. So thank you for that. And, Andy, thank you for joining us today, and good luck with the stock today on the market. Mayor, why don't we take a quick question? Let's do it, please. Congratulations to you. Thank you. That's great. Thank you.
 Tim, why don't you come up here? Right here? Surround him with your brother. My God, look at this. You don't usually get this much... This is what it is to be a Wibmer brother. I have to ask, by the way, now that you're selling paper in a can as well as a bottle, which is the better selling kind? Two bottles. I personally think it tastes better in a bottle, but just as my own, I'm sure it's the same. We're working on that.
 Amen. Thanks very much.
 Okay. We have a couple of items that we pulled from the consent calendar that we might want to deal with before our 1030 time certain. So why don't we return to those, please? I don't know if we necessarily need staff here for them, but the first is 485.
 45 authorized a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the Southwest Oak Street Southwest NATO Parkway to Southwest 10th Avenue project for an estimated $975,000 and again, I don't think there's necessarily any need for a presentation But it was pulled to regular calendar. I think because of the dollar amount. All right, Steve. I think that's right Yeah, so I'll I'll just hear from you about to aggressive folks one. Okay any questions about this item? Anyone want to speak on this contract?
 If not, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's please take a vote. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hale? Aye. 486? Aye.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the Northeast 122nd Avenue I-84 ramp to Northeast Skidmore Street project for an estimated $1,720,000. Same thing. This is a contract authorization, but it was pulled to the regular calendar because of the dollar amount. So anyone have any questions about this item? Anyone want to speak on it? If not, then let's take a vote, please.
 Yes. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I appreciate both of these contracts being pulled to the regular agenda. For one thing, it highlights that we're investing $1.72 million on this improvement, which includes pedestrian signal improvements, upgrading ramps to meet current Americans with Disability Act guidelines, buffered bike lines, and other safety improvements. So thank you, Commissioner Novick, for continuing to...
 to invest the limited general funds that we have available on projects like this, which are going to make things better. Aye. Nails. Agreed. A good project. Aye. Okay. Then we're still a little ahead of schedule for the time certain, so let's go to item 490. Report on 10-year implementation of citywide tree project. And this is rescheduled to May 18th at 9.30 a.m. 491.
 491, adopt the Skidmore Old Town Historic District Design Guidelines. And this is a vote on a second reading, please. Fish. Aye. Schultzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Mayor Harris, I'm very grateful to you for bringing this along with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And again, thank you to Art DeMuro and Bing Sheldon in particular for all their work on this project, which truly is a legacy. Aye. Thank you.
 As it happens, on my way to work this morning, riding on the Orange Line, I was talking to a neighbor who was pondering the question of whether that neighborhood should become a historic district. And I was encouraging her because it's a good idea, and there's a lot of things that we need to do to protect the great old buildings in our city. And this kind of planning effort is one of them. And I'm very happy and very proud that this is here and that we're doing it. Aye. 492.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland Development Commission and the Office of Government Relations for federal and state legislative and lobbying activities. We may have gotten far enough ahead of the schedule that people aren't here to present on this. And maybe can we do the second reading votes? Yeah, let's just do the second reading. Sorry. So we'll set that one over and come back to the ones that aren't second readings, and we'll just keep working our way through them.
 And the next one would be 497, it looks like. Yeah. Yeah.
 497, authorize the purchase of five pieces of emergency apparatus for a total not to exceed amount of $2,325,000 with general obligation bond funds and two pieces of emergency apparatus for a total not to exceed amount of $2,329,151 with general fund resources. Roll call vote, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Well, once again, I want to thank Portland voters for supporting this bond measure to allow Portland Fire and Rescue to purchase critical life safety and fire safety equipment that they need to do a great job every day. Aye. Novick.
 Thanks to Commissioner Leonard, who was on pins and needles on this very dais for days after the vote, because it passed by such a narrow majority at the height of the recession, and it's a testament to Portland voters that they are willing to invest in crucial safety apparatus. Aye. Nails. Aye. Okay, let's see down the list here. 500, please. Yes.
 create a local improvement district to construct street sidewalk and stormwater improvements west of Southwest 30th Avenue in the Southwest Dolf Court Spring Garden Street local improvement district second reading vote please I Seltzman, I know Vic. Hi. Hi Oh, they're here, okay, we could do 501 501 and then come back to that. Yeah, I
 let's do 501 and then we'll return to the order 501 extend contract with kogan owens kogan llc through december 31 2016 to provide administrative and logistical support to the private for hire advisory committee not to exceed 43 000. second reading vote please hi saltsman hi novick hi hi hi
 Okay, we'll return to our time certain item, which is number 477. Proclaim the summer of 2016 to be Portland in the street season in Portland. Mr. Novick. Colleagues, to properly introduce this item, I need to first call on Martha and the Vandellas. Of course you did.
 dancing in the streets thank you
 Colleagues, streets and sidewalks make up our city's largest public space. As a result, it's important that we utilize our streets in a way that would achieve multiple city interests like health, safety, and livability. PBOT has been a national leader in encouraging people to become actively engaged in the public right of way, whether it's through infrastructure like safe routes to school or through permitting the many activities that take place on our streets and in our neighborhoods, including running events, block parties, and farmers markets.
 Livable Streets is a concept that permeates all programs and groups of the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and it's a concept that draws people from all over the world to study how we utilize our greatest public space, our streets, to meet the many goals we have as a city. To give us more background about PBOT's Portland in the Streets initiative, I'd like to welcome Margie Bradway, head of PBOT's Active Transportation Safety Division, and Kristen Aldrin from PBOT's Permanent Group to say a few words.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner. I'm Margie Bradway, the Active Transportation Safety Division Manager, and I'm honored to be here today to talk about people in the streets. Fred Kent from Project from Public Spaces said, if you plan cities for cars and traffic, you will get cars and traffic. If you plan for people and places, you will get people and places. Thank you.
 And at the heart of this initiative is really placemaking. In many ways, Portland has been a leader in this in a huge part to our community partners and the innovation of people like Intersection Repair and Better Blocks, who you'll hear from later today, and
 And really PBOT's role in that is facilitating a place and using our public right-of-way as a template for them to have community uses. This is by intention by the city. The City of Portland's draft 2030 plan calls for designing, managing, and repurposing Portland streets to create opportunities for a variety of community functions,
 To that end, PBOT is taking that to the next level. We have just kicked off a Livable Streets initiative in which we will be coming back to this council in probably this winter with a strategy that will provide clear guidance from the Bureau in our planning, permitting, and management of placemaking projects.
 We will look at how we can continue to innovate in the public right-of-way by opening Portland streets, parking, plazas, and alleyways. At the same time, we will be tackling issues such as liability, insurance, and outreach. This strategy will provide consistent tools for the Bureau to deal with the challenging issues of maintenance and programming and permitting, as I mentioned.
 But at the same time, it will move us forward to the next level of figuring out the best way to open our streets to the community. So at the end of this, I just want to say that I once...
 heard someone refer to the best streets as being sticky streets. And I liked that term, and sticky kind of being that the measure of a street is not how quickly one moves through it, but how long one lingers and sticks to the actual street. To that end, this partnership has been a great collaboration between my group and the Development Services Group. Good morning. I'm Kristen Aldrin of the Community Use Permitting Group.
 PBOT supports and encourages activation of the public right-of-way for the intent of building communities. Through our community events program, PBOT issues permits for block parties, street festivals, neighborhood fairs, farmers markets, and community demonstration projects, such as those installed by Better Blocks PDX. Annually, PBOT issues 200 community event permits, as well as almost 500 every year block party neighborhood events.
 As stewards of the public right-of-way, PBOT coordinates with many different city and government organizations, such as fire and police, emergency services, and Office of Neighborhood Involvement. We ensure streets are closed safely for all modes of travel. PBOT's traffic engineers review every application, and each permit is contingent upon an approved traffic control plan. Thank you. Thank you. You have some invited testimony as well, Commissioner? I believe so.
 Let's see. I believe we do. We have Gwen Shaw of Better Block PDX, Elaine Freisenstrang of AARP Oregon, and Hao Hagadorn of Portland State University. Before they come up, Kristen, I just wanted to tell you that I hear repeatedly from everybody who deals with you how wonderful you are, so thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Well, good morning. Come on up, please. Good morning. Who'd like to go first? Good morning. I think Gwen will go first. Okay.
 Hi, my name is Gwen Shaw, and I'm a Better Block volunteer and a transportation analyst at Lancaster Engineering and Street Lab.
 I'd like to start by giving you all a big thank you for supporting Better Block PDX in the past few years and allowing us to work with the city to push boundaries. The streets in Portland provide the largest amount of public space, and you've allowed us to demonstrate what can be done when we think about new ways to use it. Portland has the opportunity to become an incubator for innovation by using temporary projects to show us what is possible without the need for a long-term commitment. These projects showcase ideas and opportunities, and they have a way to jump forward.
 They have a way to jump-starting the conversation about what a street could look like, and starting the conversation is Better Block's role. We help implement some of the ideas that have been communicated to us by neighbors, and we don't necessarily have an agenda for a particular street design. We just welcome any encouragement and voices.
 Everything from design to implementation has been done by volunteers with a passion for creating more people-friendly streets. We currently have two separate mile-long stretches of reimagined space going on right now that are providing our city with nearly two miles of protected bike lanes, at least 10 crosswalks with reduced crossing lengths to allow safer and easier access to both sides of Northeast Broadway as well as Nato Parkway. And we have many internet comments and survey responses to go through full of insight from the community.
 plus we have a demo of a bus only lane on the burnside bridge planned later for the summer
 That, I think, is quite amazing. Our projects bring people into the conversation of planning and design that otherwise wouldn't be there. Students, residents, local businesses, the list goes on. Each of our projects since 2013 have grown incrementally larger and have either led to permanent improvements, found sustainable funding to be improved, or most importantly, inspired business leaders to more aggressively advocate for people-oriented streets.
 Thanks to the relationship and support we've gained with the city, we're able to collect data for the city and work with them to ensure these projects are helpful in moving us forward no matter what.
 With no cost or risk to the city, we have helped develop livable street projects to temporarily show everyone what is possible when we design our transportation system around people. And I appreciate your support going forward so that we can keep starting conversations one project at a time. And also all of these projects are kind of current pictures and things going on from the last couple of years.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hills, members of the council. Thank you for this opportunity to speak. My name is Elaine Friesen Strang, and I am a Portland resident and a volunteer for AARP Oregon. This past Monday, I had the opportunity to participate in a walk that celebrated the opening of Better Blocks PDX Better Broadway.
 This reimagining of a three-lane street pulsing through a busy commercial district leading into downtown Portland created temporary crosswalks in a neighborhood where getting from one side of the street to the other is daunting. I marveled at the temporary bus stop island and the open lane inviting safer passage for bikes, pedestrians, and business activity.
 As an AARP volunteer and active transportation advocate, I appreciate the city's willingness to promote creativity and innovative urban design. AARP has been a sponsor of Sunday Parkways for four years, celebrating active lifestyles, connecting neighborhoods, and promoting community pride by opening up streets to allow residents to bike, walk, and roll.
 We recognize that inviting people of all ages and abilities to own their right of passage in the streets and to stake their claim in the vibrancy of their communities nurtures the health of our citizens and the future of the city. AARP applauds the city for its proclamation in making the summer of 2016 Portland in the streets.
 Good morning. Good morning. Hi, my name is Hao Hagedorn. I'm the Associate Director for the Transportation Research and Education Center at Portland State University. Our research and education activities support walking and bicycling as key pieces of the transportation system, exploring the choice to walk or cycle and how to make these options safer for everyone. Thank you.
 A key component of our education strategy is experiential learning. This is learning by doing and interacting with industry and agency partners helps us to attract and retain students. At PSU, our institutional motto is let knowledge serve the city. We partner each year with the city of Portland to incorporate transportation-related projects into several planning and engineering courses.
 PSU has workshops where planning students work directly with community clients to address problems. For example, students collected information that the city used for an active transportation plan for a diverse, lower-income neighborhood. For over a decade, our undergraduate students in the Urban Transportation Systems class in Engineering work on projects for public sector clients as well.
 opportunities such as Portland Into the Streets really opens up innovation and possibilities for students to apply what they learn in the classroom to their living laboratory, which is the city of Portland. And I know that Gwen didn't mention this, but last year – so Gwen is a recent Portland State University graduate. And last year, through her work with the Better Blocks Project, she actually had –
 a job opportunity in D.C., and she was ready to leave. But through her work on that project, it opened up her eyes and the possibilities of what working in transportation in Portland could be a career opportunity for her. So we are really happy that Gwen decided to stay, and she is working to help improve the streets and make them much more livable for everybody here.
 I thank you for the opportunity to testify in front of you and also for supporting Livable Streets in Portland. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Thank you. By the way, I'm a nice op-ed. Thank you. Anyone else would like to speak about this proclamation before I read it?
 So, again, we want to thank you, Commissioner Novick, and this team of both staff from PBOT and the community for highlighting this issue. This is really a...
 concept that people have advocated for over the years like Fred Kent or like Lewis Mumford before him who said Americans will soon have every means of moving about the city but not no reason whatsoever to go there or maybe a little more directly forget the damn motor car build the cities for neighbors and lovers and friends
 So this idea of streets as public spaces, not just plumbing for cars, is something that you and PBOT and others in our community that we've heard from have really been pushing for, and it makes us a better place. So that's why this...
 This initiative on your part is appropriate and why this declaration enshrines that. It says, whereas summer festivals and events in the public right-of-way attract hundreds of thousands of people to Portland and demonstrate the cultural creativity and economic vitality of our city, and whereas Portland has consistently been a leader in transportation innovation, especially in our approach to using streets as public spaces,
 to foster inclusive community connections, open streets for events, offer Portland's residents and visitors the opportunity to experience their streets and their city in new and exciting ways.
 Whereas the fast-approaching summer weather is the perfect time for Portlanders of all ages and abilities to ride, roll, dance, and stroll through our neighborhoods. With all of the activity in our streets during this season, we remind all Portlanders to travel safely. Look out for each other as they move through our beautiful city. If I can amend this on behalf of Commissioner Salzman.
 put down the cell phone and look around. And whereas Portland has a number of open streets programs for street festivals, running events, block parties, farmers markets, and Sunday parkways presented by Kaiser Permanente.
 And whereas community groups like Better Block PDX highlight how streets can be temporarily reconfigured to create a safer, more welcoming environment, while at the same time providing the City of Portland opportunities to try designs, gather data, and allow residents and visitors of Portland to experience streets differently –
 PBOT is working with BetterBlock PDX to beta test and gather data at no cost to the city on three alternative street designs in Portland this summer, as we heard, Northeast Broadway, Southwest NATO Parkway, and Burnside Bridge.
 And whereas Portland will be hosting the 2016 International Open Streets Summit this August, now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the summer of 2016 to be Portland in the Streets season in our city and encourage all residents to connect to our public spaces and celebrate this season. Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Thank you all for this good work, and let's have a great summer out there. Thank you.
 All right. Let's move on to the remaining items on our regular agenda. I believe we want to start with 490, but I want to give Commissioner Fritz a chance to come back in the room. And there she is, 490. 478. Oh, sorry. The 40 times certain.
 I'm sorry, I missed that one. Okay. Yes. 478. Accept a grant in the amount of $100,000 from United States Department of Transportation for Beyond Traffic, the Smart City Challenge grant project, and formally authorize a cooperative agreement. I want to overlook this. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, as you may have heard, Portland is in the running to win a $40 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation. Earlier this year, Portland competed alongside 77 other cities to showcase how we could use technology to address urban mobility problems and mitigate past inequities in our transportation system. And back in March, we found out that Portland was a finalist city in this challenge. And now we're neck and neck with six other cities to prove to the feds that we are America's smartest cities.
 The other cities are Pittsburgh, Austin, Denver, Kansas City, San Francisco, and Columbus, Ohio. The grant application is due May 24th, and as the people working tirelessly on this application can tell you, we're doing everything we can to highlight all of the innovative things Portland is doing as part of this grant application. And now I'd like to turn it over to Maurice Henderson and Leah Preet from PBOT to tell us more about this exciting grant application. I can't talk today, apparently. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Yeah, thank you for the time today. This is really, really exciting for us. So as Commissioner Novick said, we are in the running for a $40 million prize from USDOT to be the smartest city in America when it comes to transportation. On top of that, Paul Allen and the Vulcan Institute has thrown in another $10 million in the prize. And there are other private companies that have come to the table that will be offering prizes
 prizes to the winning city, such as Alphabet from Google Labs, Infradesk from Amazon. There's a host of other things that are on the table for the winning city. So we're really excited about this.
 And I think, so I believe Portland's going to win. We have some amazing things in our application that I don't think any other city is going to have. And I'm really excited when we get to publicly unveil some of what I'm dubbing the secret sauce in our application, because I think we are going to be leaps ahead of some other cities and things that we have come up with.
 But I'm also really excited about this because this is an opportunity for us to address mobility issues in East Portland. It's an issue for us. It presents an opportunity for us to connect East Portlanders to jobs, especially along the Columbia Corridor. And it's also giving us an opportunity to connect freight movement along the Columbia Corridor into our application.
 There is a lot that is in this. High level picture is it is a ubiquitous mobility application. Anybody with a smart phone will be able to look at an application that can show them how they can get from point A to point B.
 by mode, by time, by carbon footprint, and understanding that not everybody has a smartphone. We also are looking at deploying kiosks, so people can walk up to a kiosk, either in the right of way near bus stations or other areas to do the same thing.
 There's a lot more to it. I'm going to let Maurice talk a little bit more about it. But it is just incredible. And the amount of work that is going into this is pretty insane, but we have an amazing team that's working day and night to get this done. And we have really incredible partners in the private sector who are helping us with this. And even though I know we're going to win on the off chance that we don't,
 we have identified some amazing things that we should be doing anyway. And I think we have established some partnerships in the private sector, the advocacy world, nonprofit world, that we're going to continue to build on and keep working regardless of the outcome after June 8th and our presentation in D.C. So I'm going to let Maurice take it from here and run you through a quick PowerPoint.
 thank you leah and thank you council thank you mayor um as you know mr mayor commissioner thank you both for your leadership and support of of our efforts uh certainly leah's guidance and leadership has been um you know invaluable in this process it's been a lot a heavy lift but we're extremely excited about uh the prospects of for the future so i'll run this powerpoint very quickly for you just to give you a high level overview uh as lee as as leah
 As Leah mentioned, the USDOT presented an opportunity for the first time for cities to tell the government, the federal government, how they would like to see their funds allocated and what a smart city would look like in their eyes.
 And so since December, we've been working feverishly on this process to try to win this $40 million to show that we are the smartest city, as the mayor said down in Austin, Texas, when we were announced as one of the seven finalists, actually one of the five finalists originally, which became seven. Portland has been really the prototyper for the nation, has been a teacher for the nation. Our land use policies and policies.
 urban design and whatnot has been something that people come from all over the country, but also all over the world to come see. And so this is an opportunity, again, for Portland to show that thought leadership in that space. And so we've brought a team of our private sector partners here in the area,
 public sector partners from the state level, regional, as well as academia. PSU has been a really strong partner in this process, as well as the University of Oregon and others. So the collaboration that Leah was alluding to in terms of prioritizing some of the needs that we've been, in some cases, not able to address collectively, we all recognize that as something that we need to move forward on. Thank you.
 So for those who aren't as familiar with this project, we have a quick video that explains it. City challenge. Imagine a city where transportation just works. Gridlock is a thing of the past. Lights turn green as you approach. Traffic flows smoothly as your car talks to other cars to avoid crashes.
 It even talks to pedestrians and bicyclists. Your driverless taxi shows up just as your train pulls into the station. You arrive home from work and your automated grocery list is delivered just in time for dinner, from the farm to your table.
 Smart. It's what our cities should be. Equipped with technologies that transform our vehicles and infrastructure so that we can safely manage every aspect of our transportation system. What transportation technologies should a smart city have? Our goal is for you to determine the possible so we can move beyond traffic. Join the challenge. So that was the video that the USDOT originally sent out to the cities and all the applicants. Yeah.
 And so this screenshot that you see is an example of what we believe ubiquitous mobility for Portland, or UB Mobile PDX as we call it, will look like for folks. So if you see in the left-hand corner, there's this reference to the marketplace, and Leah was talking about that.
 talking about the application, the software application, that people would be able to see the different mode choices that they have. So let's say that you're living along the Powell Division corridor or you work in the Columbia corridor, and whether you take the bus, whether you ride your bike or walk, all of these mobility options, including autonomous, as Commissioner Novick calls it, robot cars,
 would be available for your choice, and you'd be able to see not only the price, the timing, you'd also see the health benefit for that particular choice, as well as the impact on the climate. So there's a number of things that will be part of this marketplace that we would create together.
 So let me just get this. I'm sure you understand this. So you're in your car with your cell phone on, getting all this information while driving. Is that what we're encouraging? Well, it would actually be talking to you. Okay, thank you. Yeah, we've actually talked to Waze and a number of other organizations
 private sector partners about making sure that there's not a distracted driving component to this. That's been a really, safety has been a critical component of our offering. And so all of these things would be interconnected. There would be this open data,
 that we would create that, you know, startup companies here in Portland and elsewhere would be able to utilize that data to help us provide even more rich, robust applications for people to be able to use as part of this application.
 Part of this money will also go to actually putting devices in the hands of people in those corridors who may not actually have those devices, or we'd be working with partners to provide data plans to make sure that people who may have a smartphone but not a data plan at the moment will be able to leverage this. And as Leah mentioned, one of the partners is Sidewalk Labs, who will be providing about 100 kiosks.
 in the corridors that we'll be using as well so that people will have that access both on the street, at home, with their cell phones. We'll also be working with partners along those corridors, the two community colleges, the high schools in the area, some of the workforce development centers, et cetera. So –
 This is a really all-encompassing project for us. As we've said many, many times, this is a people project, not a technology project. It's really about how we make the greatest impacts for folks here in our community.
 What would be cool in those kiosks if there was a place to plug in and recharge phones? Yes. Is that part of it? Yeah. It's great having all of the applications. One thing that I've learned from one of the folks who's running for city council about Wi-Fi is that if you use your phone on the bus, it tends to drain the battery really fast. Yes. So that's another reason to not maybe use the phone on the bus, but maybe talk with your neighbor. So I just wanted to bring that up as, you know, if you are then waiting for a bus and could...
 plug in and recharge that would be really great. Yeah, and TriMet has been a tremendous partner in this. A lot of this work and a lot of the infrastructure in terms of the actual technology components that Mobileye will be providing to the winning city for anti-collision infrastructure is something that will be installed on TriMet buses as well as some of our city fleet vehicles.
 So that's another thing that we're really, really excited about. And to your point, Commissioner, we're trying to think through all of those contingencies for folks to make sure that we're taking everything into account. Obviously, we will miss some things, and we will learn through that process. It's a three-year grant cycle for the USDOT, the $10 million that Leah referenced earlier.
 from Vulcan is a two-year grant for the electrification and EV project. But we feel like we have a really good start and great momentum on this. I'm sorry. I know in New York City they just partnered with Google to come in and put the Wi-Fi stations. There is chargers at each station. They did it without any taxpayer costs because Google is leveraging the advertising space.
 Is that in our future, to be able to have that kind of Wi-Fi? I mean, it's not technically PBOT, but it impacts you, some kind of Wi-Fi system in Portland.
 Yeah. So as you know, Commissioner, there are ongoing conversations with Google Fiber, and we have our own Ernie network here. So there will certainly be opportunities and things that we'd bring to the council to discuss in terms of how we leverage that space and the dollars that are leveraged to make that available for people.
 me. Bless you. Here is just a high-level visual of the corridors that we're talking about and the kinds of components that would go in there. So as
 As I mentioned, or as Leah mentioned, I should say, the Columbia Corridor, as well as the Powell Division Corridor, and the north-south connections along southeast 122nd are the corridors that we've identified for this project. And as the Commissioner and Mayor know, next week the city will be hosting Secretary Fox. He'll be coming here to Portland to meet with us, as well as our equity and community partners,
 and folks who are just excited about this project to talk about what's happening here in Portland. He's going and making a tour of all seven cities, which is tremendous for each of the communities, to have the federal government coming in to talk about our visions for what our cities will look like. Unfortunately, he's coming when the MAX is under repair. Yeah, yeah. We tell him it's usually much better than this. Yeah, we've had that. He's been here before.
 Yeah, we've had that conversation, but we're really excited that he's going to be able to go and visit one of the corridors. So the meeting is actually going to be held at the PCC campus out at Southeast 82nd Avenue. So we're really looking forward to that opportunity. I believe Commissioner, the mayor, I believe Governor Brown will also be able to attend for a few minutes to meet with the secretary. Do you have something you want to do? No, it's okay.
 So as you can see, along the corridor, we'll be implementing, Commissioner Fritz, to your question, some of these electrification projects.
 Areas for the grid will also be like I said with with sidewalk labs implementing the kiosks So there will be wireless connections as well as Wi-Fi hotspots Commissioner fits fish to your to your question and we will also be deploying air quality sensors as well as Sensors to track trip data and things of that nature So we'll be getting a really robust set of data points to make to to
 clearly to help us with our decision making in the future. And so this is probably the most important thing for you all to know. Obviously today hopefully you will vote to accept this $100,000 because it's...
 actively being spent at the moment by the team. But on Monday, we're going to be actually displaying some of the technology over at OMSI. So we'll have some of the electric vehicles. We're hoping to
 hoping to get a few, maybe an autonomous vehicle. We'll certainly be displaying our Biketown bike on Monday as well. We've talked to some of our other partners about some of their sort of prototype projects. We're not sure yet.
 all the things that will be there. But it's going to be a really exciting event for the community. We reached out to some of the local schools, all of our modal committees, and a lot of community partners will be there. And then on the 18th, as I mentioned, Secretary Fox will be here. The mayor and commissioner will be hosting his visit for a couple of hours. Thank you.
 The big date for me is May 24th. Our team has been working feverishly to get to completion for our written application. And then, as Leah also mentioned, on June 8th, the mayor, myself, Leah, and the team will be going to Washington, D.C.,
 to make our oral pitch um for for why we believe that portland's the smartest city uh and then i believe there's a press conference the following day on the 9th uh and then sometime late june mid early july we should know um and then the secretary will be coming back out here to make the announcement officially um so looking forward to that any other questions from questions
 Thank you both very much. Thanks. We appreciate the update. Anyone else want to speak on this item before we take action on accepting the grant? It's still not signed up. Okay. He's got – he wants to speak. Come on up. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I hope that without even having any particular expenditures, we can improve our networking and planning with Mr. McFarlane at TriMet
 I'm very happy with the public transit in Portland, but I think it's difficult for us to win a smartest city grant when our most popular TriMet station, Pioneer Courthouse Square, doesn't have any public displays of the MAX scheduling. I think that's so ridiculous. The city, which used to have this cool big screen TV downstairs that showed some bus arrival times, the city should actually, if TriMet won't do the right thing,
 Consider that many poor and distressed people don't have a smartphone to stand around at the Pioneer Square station with. And it's kind of bizarre that the most popular TriMet station, probably in the entire area, won't service the neediest customers with a display that tells you when the red line and blue line are coming, when they come back in two weeks. So, you know, in addition to chasing this
 award, which we deserve to win. We want to keep working on being the best. Thank you very much. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog Communications, PDX. One of the concerns I have is more or less on the air pollution. I understand you're going to do some air pollution sensors. I'd like to see in the future there's no fossil fuel operated vehicles within central city downtown.
 those parameters to be looked at close on what that parameter would be. Again, I think we need to go to the autonomous vehicles, all electric. I think we need to have more closer discussions with Lyft, General Motors, Google, Apple, get them in the middle of this, and again, offer the exclusive rights to one of these companies that want to take
 a location in Central City downtown and begin their pilot projects on the autonomous vehicles. We're talking $40 to $50 million here. And again, I commend Paul Allen, Vulcan. I'm really trying to understand why you're putting up $10 million myself. But then again, Mr. Novick tried to remove a memorial dedicated to one of the Blazers. So I think we need to look at that real close, Mr. Allen, and understand that respect needs to be shown
 for memorials dedicated to a trailblazer. And understand you need to look at real close when you're talking about the Memorial Coliseum and understand that there's a lot of people out there and a large amount of funds can be determined if they go in the direction of the city or not.
 just based upon certain moves that you may try to make. So again, I commend Mr. Allen for proposing to do $10 million toward the city of Portland, because if I was in your shoes, Mr. Allen, and someone messed around with the memorial dedicated to the Blazers, I would ensure they'd never get a penny from me ever again. So something to think about. And an issue, again, I'd like to see LIFT step up on this,
 I'd like to see one of them in Uber, Travis Kalanick, step back into the game, and you and Garrett Camp come back to the table and make an offer to the city of Portland. Since you discounted the traditional cab companies, their values by at least 50%, come back into this city, make an offer.
 to do exclusive rights for autonomous vehicles, and that number should be very high to have that right to do, and I'm talking $1 billion to begin with. Thank you. Thank you. Save the Duckworth Duck. Good morning. Okay, as a futurist person who thinks into the future, I think in the future oil will go up, and the society that you're driving around with a car with some sort of computer saving gas is ridiculous. My concept of a smart city is ridiculous.
 You live near where you work and you walk. And also using Google for people to, a video phone technology, instead of us all meeting here, we could meet separately at a library, in a library conference room, and still talk to one another. I never leave 10 blocks from where we're at, you know. This is my system of the future. Next week I will do a talk on Intel, and I like none of this stuff.
 I don't believe in people walking around saving energy using electronics. We should be using electronics to make solar cells and live separately. Okay, enough said. That's my vision of the future, and I see a world where oil is $10 a gallon. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, let's take action, please, on this emergency ordinance so we can accept this money. Thank you.
 Well, first, I'm pleased to support this application and join it with my colleagues in rooting for your success, Steve and Charlie. I just want to comment that I wasn't here last week and part of the week before because I was visiting two interesting cities. One was Denver and one was Cordova in Spain. What I learned from Denver is they're slightly ahead of us in transforming their union station into a multipurpose transportation hub.
 And I love the fact that they've taken the station and turned it into a non-transportation use and then built a new transportation hub that's very easy to access adjacent to it. And I had the pleasure of taking one of the BRTs to a neighboring community, and it went on a dedicated lane, and it was fast and efficient and timely, and it was great technology telling me where to go, and I almost felt European, actually, with the way it was organized. So.
 So something I learned there. And then in Cordova, Cordova really is one of the model cities for us to look at in terms of pedestrian-friendly city. They restrict cars in the historic center. They have fantastic bus and rail. And, Steve, when I came home, I had breakfast in Madrid on Sunday. And then – excuse me. Yeah, Madrid on Sunday. But I took the fast train Saturday night. And that's –
 And that's about 230 miles from Cordoba to Madrid. And it took just under an hour and a half. And I'm lying in, I'm sitting in this comfortable chair listening to opera in a car that barely moved, going up over 200 miles an hour in a dedicated lane. And they ran every 15 minutes.
 Just extraordinary. And, of course, the two train stations at either end are just fantastic. So I learned a lot on my trip. This is a wonderful opportunity for our city. And Charlie has been spending so much time with Secretary Fox, it would almost be ungracious not to award this, Charlie. We hope so. So good luck to our team. Hi. Pleased to accept this grant, and good luck. Novick? Thank you.
 I want to thank Leah and Maurice and the whole team that's been working tirelessly on this proposal, not just PBOT staff but folks from throughout the community who are participating with us, and that's why we've got a great shot is that we're able to demonstrate overwhelming community support. I also want to thank Mayor Hales for his tireless efforts on this issue. And I also want to thank my colleagues for being willing to accept this money. So thank you very much, and aye.
 chris thank you commissioner novick and director treat for your work on this and the entire team it's good that we're getting this hundred thousand dollars to do the work and it makes me think that when we give out neighborhood grants and other grants to the community we ought to be investing in and recognizing it takes a lot of work to put in a grant application and a lot of coaching and such so that's something that i've asked my team at the office of neighborhood involvement to be thinking about moving forward
 And also, I very much appreciate all of the thinking that's going into this. I encourage us to think of a range of low-tech and high-tech things. And I think one of the things that makes our application stronger is Commissioner Novick and Director Treat's recognition that sidewalks and crosswalks are also part of smart transportation and that we need to invest in those. But as we go to May 24th with the deadline, I hope that you'll be accepting questions
 suggestions from the community, one that occurs to me is that why don't we have plug-ins in the bus to recharge our phones like airplanes often now have plug-ins to recharge. That would be you have them in the car so we should be thinking about what amenities can you have in a car that you don't get on a bus and how can we provide those. So thank you very much. It's really an interesting process. Those are six significant cities that we're competing with and I wish us all the best. Hi.
 I appreciate this discussion, and I think it has added value to the work. And there's a lot of work, so thank you again for doing it. But I think this discussion has helped illustrate that we should think big and small, that there are little things like chargers at the kiosks or chargers on a bus or availability of basic information about when the next train is coming, you know, that make the system work better. And so we should try to not embellish but incorporate –
 That kind of big and small thinking. One personal anecdote to add, we also ought to think about redundancy for when systems don't work. Because coming back from a speech by the head of Toyota America last night about autonomous vehicles, the security system in this building had locked up and no one could get into it, including the security guards. So I was unable to obtain the keys to the city car that I had planned to drive home. And instead, of course, I was able to go across the street and catch an orange line.
 So the redundancy in the system worked in that case because the technology doesn't always – oh, and my cell phone had died, so I couldn't call. My wife would tell her why I was going to be late. So, you know, two out of three technologies failed me. Thank you, TriMet. Theirs worked. But I think my point of that story is that having a system that's resilient enough to work for everybody means not everybody has a smartphone, not everybody understands the system, not everybody knows –
 what the schedule is, and you might need to charge your phone while you're at it. So thank you for a good discussion. This is an amazing opportunity. There's never been anything like this. There's never been a case where the Secretary of Transportation put this much time personally into anything that I can remember in any one project. I mean, you know, we've had hardworking secretaries of transportation. But for the Secretary of Transportation to do what he's done on this, go to Europe, you know, go to every city involved, he is really invested in this.
 And then also for them, as you said, to ask cities for what are the best ideas instead of saying here are the terms of the grant and you must comply.
 That's something new under the sun, and this Secretary of Transportation is great. And if there's a Democratic administration in Washington, I'm going to urge her to keep him rather than replace him if he's willing to stay on, because having a former mayor as housing secretary and transportation secretary has been very salutary to the work between cities and federal government. So great work. Sorry about the digression. Aye. Thank you.
 Okay, let's get back to the calendar and let these people get back to work. They've got days left. We are, I believe, at item 470. No, we're not 470. We're at item 490. I was wondering if we should go to 502 since some members have to leave. Okay, that's 502. Yes, we should do 502, which is second reading. And I have a question.
 Okay. Did you read Item 502, please? Item 502, establish a heavy vehicle use tax to fund Portland's street repair and traffic safety program. Steve, before the vote, I just have a question. Since I wasn't here last week, I just want to confirm that under this proposal there is a four-year sunset? That's correct. Thank you. Okay. Roll call, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I am going to support this. I do, as I feel we should. We should have linked this to the passage, make it contingent on the passage of the gas tax, which I hope next week we'll all be celebrating its passage by Portland voters. But nonetheless, that motion failed.
 the fact that this is a temporary tax that will sunset more or less on the same timeline as the motor vehicles fuel tax i think more or less does make one contingent on the other i think in terms of future uh going forward with portland voters so pleased to support this aye no thank you
 Thank you, colleagues. The purpose of this tax is to ensure that the heaviest trucks pay their fair share of repairing Portland streets. And I note that some members of the trucking industry, some truckers have said that they think that this is not the right way to raise $2.5 million. Right.
 but haven't come up with an alternative, this doesn't go into effect for four months. If folks in the trucking industry come up with another alternative that seems fair, that raises $2.5 million, I'm certainly willing to listen to it. The important thing is that the trucking industry pay its fair share, not the particular mechanism. This is the best mechanism we could come up with after setting it for several months and involving various stakeholders. Great. Thanks.
 I commend Commissioner Novick for making sure that this has been passed before the end of the voting on the gas tax next week in six days. I am supporting it with that proviso in mind, Commissioner Fish. It reminds me of the vote that three of us took on the Northwest parking plan in the
 The entire hearing was, this is awful, don't do it. And last week we heard a lot of concerns from the trucking industry that there were other ways to do things, that there were inequities, that there were some significant costs that were different from what the transportation folks had estimated.
 By passing the Northwest Parking Plan in the end of 2012, we made sure that everybody came back to the table, and sure enough, they came up with a better plan very shortly. If we don't pass it, then there's less incentive for people to...
 to the table and indeed we've seen that you've worked very diligently over the past several months to try to find something that had more consensus and i commend you for that effort so i'm going to support it knowing that it's imperfect and that probably it does need some changes and confident that you will lead that effort commissioner thank you for your work and thank you director tree aye
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick, for your leadership on this. And I think there's a real simple message here, which is important that the community understands, and that is we all own the streets. We all should pay a reasonable share towards putting them into good repair.
 and that's really what we're about here with both the gas tax proposal and with this companion measure to make sure that the trucking industry is paying its fair share. Now, in taxation, there's no such thing as perfect fairness. We try to make systems of taxation as fair as possible, but they're never going to be perfectly fair.
 My 29-year-old daughter is getting married in New York this summer, but I'm still paying school bond taxes in Portland. I don't have kids in the schools. That's not perfectly fair, but it's also a good idea for all of us to support the common good of schools, and it's a good idea for all of us to support the common good of good streets and roads as well. So this is a move in the right direction and achieves a level of fairness that's appropriate between people that buy gasoline and people that buy diesel fuel and put it in trucks. Aye. Aye.
 Okay. So, Mayor, two of us have to leave at 1130. Let's see what else we have left that we really must do for that. Not 492. We do have to do 492. And 495. 495. Let's do 492, please. Yes.
 492, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland Development Commission and the Office of Government Relations for federal and state legislative and lobbying activities. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mayor Hales, commissioners, for the record, Elizabeth Edwards with the Office of Government Relations. Thank you so much for this opportunity to speak today. I will keep my comments extremely brief. The purpose of this action is to authorize an intergovernmental agreement between the Portland Development Commission and the Office of Government Relations for state and federal lobbying activities. The Office of Government Relations enters into interagency agreements with certain city bureaus in order to recognize workloads that substantially exceed the service agreements covered through our typical overhead model.
 Since PDC has its own governing body, it necessitates the slightly more formal recognition through an intergovernmental agreement. So,
 So we've done this several times before with the Portland Development Commission. Some examples of the work that we've performed on their behalf at the state level include passing bills on clean energy and seismic retrofit financing mechanisms, investments in film and video, protection of property tax revenues. At the federal level, working with the transfer of the U.S. Postal Service and Northwest Hoyt EB-5 program trips to D.C. So –
 Quick background with that. I'll just say thank you for your time and welcome any questions. Okay. Jared, anything to add? Nothing to add. Justin Douglas with the Portland Development Commission. Just very pleased with the work that Government Relations does, and we're happy to partner here. Great. Thank you. Questions for either Government Relations or PEC? Thank you both. Appreciate the brevity. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on up. Good morning again, Commissioners. Just briefly addressing all of you, but especially PEC,
 Amanda and Steve, who are up for re-election. Many citizens don't agree that the PDC and the general city policies always overlap. So I hope that all of you, while you're in office, will foster that discussion about if the PDC –
 Is a land bank for a few exclusive developers, or does it really work for the general development and welfare of all the citizens? I think that's a contentious point among some of us. It is a resource efficiency, so I'm not totally opposed to this issue, but I do think that there needs to be more public discussion about this.
 community vision for how the PDC can do the best work in a city where 60,000 people are rent distressed and 2,000 people are living on the streets. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Further discussion. Let's take a vote, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hale. Aye. 495. Aye.
 Authorize intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for community health care assessment team pilot to pair one paramedic with one county licensed clinical social worker to connect the high utilizer group callers with the right care. Thank you, Mayor. At Portland Fire and Rescue, we are always looking for innovative ways to respond to community needs. And I'm pleased to bring before you one such innovative response to community needs.
 and that is an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for a community health care assessment team, or CHAT, a pilot program which will pair one firefighter paramedic with one county licensed clinical social worker. The intent is to connect our high-utilizer group of 911 calls, medical calls, with the right health care at the right place and the right time.
 The city awarded and appropriated $150,000 out of the Innovation Fund to Portland Fire and Rescue for the CHAT pilot program. Additionally, there's a carryover request that was granted in the spring bump to go towards funding this program.
 And we're extremely excited about this program. We do think it really is an innovation and provides an opportunity for Multnomah County to partner with Portland Fire and Rescue to really connect our high 911 utilizer group with the right care. And here we have, here to talk more about it is Fire Chief Kim Burns and then Firefighter Lisa Reslock, who is the chat coordinator. I'll turn it over to you.
 Ken Burns, Interim Fire Chief, Portland Fire and Rescue. First of all, I would like to start off with thanking the mayor and the commissioners for setting aside those innovation funds. Funding is always a key element when we're trying to think out of the box and do something new. The CHAT program, the Community Health Care Assessment Program that we're –
 implementing is one of those such new and improved ideas. And essentially, we go on a lot of 911 calls. Some of those callers are frequent callers. Some of them are not frequent callers but have maybe social needs or drug addiction where 911 at the end of the day is not the best service for them.
 So this community assessment team will actually do twofold. One will indeed identify the highest utilizers by numbers of calls to 911. Repeated calls to 911 indicates to me that they're not getting the right care at the right time. They need to be connected with their primary care physician. They need potential housing, social, other social services. So...
 Once those high utilizers are identified, our team will follow up with them on a post-911 follow-up, if you will, to identify what other needs they may need to be more efficient, self-sufficient, help them in getting insurance if they're uninsured, help them with any other social services. Okay.
 It's a great opportunity for not only the citizens to get educated about some of the insurance that they were just provided by different measures and different legislative action to let them be connected with their primary care provider. Education is a huge component, and that will be part of the role of the chat team as well.
 letting these citizens know who call 911 repeatedly, or the one who just calls one time and just doesn't understand what their available resources are, we'll have the ability to send out a team and connect and coordinate. Our goal...
 excuse me our goal also is to work with the social worker so the social worker has a lot of networking capacity portland fire has the infrastructure the command and control quite frankly the ability to say we're here to help you we're able to break down barriers and and get people to um all
 open up their ideas and vision for new education. So that partnership is really going to be very invaluable. And again, I just want to thank you. And Lisa Reslock, she's 21 years experience with Portland Fire and Rescue. We have identified three alternates that all have 20 years experience or more.
 So she might want to take a vacation or a sick leave day, so they'll just be substituting. So how is it that you were able to free up somebody to do this? I'm really pleased that we're doing it. It's something I started four years ago when I was in charge of 911, and I know Chief Janssen has put a lot of work into this. But we've heard a lot about how fire crews stick together in fours, and how can we spare one to be in this new partnership?
 we were really pleased when we put out the recruitment i had 15 firefighters interested in this partnership the innovation grant that that you folks put aside allowed for the funding so the funding for the firefighters position as well as the funding for the social workers position is being paid for by innovation funding so it's a new position correct
 Well, it's a pilot assignment, I would say. That's my question. How can you assign somebody? Because I know you've been tight staffing, and I know that you have the four-person teams. How is it that there's an extra person who's available to do this funding, this job? Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, yeah, no, that's a very good question. So we have four persons on every response unit. We also have what we call travelers. Travelers are on A, B shifts, and C shifts. We have three shifts. We have a caveat of travelers who fill in for sick leave and vacations.
 And so this assignment literally took one of those positions that fills in when someone's on sick leave or vacation, and that position is now assigned for the six months. Ultimately, we would like to seek permanent funding, and that would then, of course, fund the firefighter's position to get back to reducing call shifts and such. So this position didn't come directly off of a fire engine, but it came out of the traveling pool. Thank you. That makes sense.
 Okay, other questions for the Chief or Lisa? Thank you, Boo, very much. When does it actually start?
 Lisa, we're working this out of the MS office, and she was assigned last Thursday to start paperwork and gathering data and basically build a program. A lot of it was there, but work on reimbursables down the road. She'll be partnered with the actual social worker at the end of the month. We needed to get this ordinance passed to get the other contract portion of the program signed.
 Has the county assigned a social worker already? There have been two county social workers that are assigned that have been designated, but not yet assigned. As you know, this has been very time-consuming, and we've been working on it for a long time, so they'll be assigned shortly, but we know who they are. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Unless there's anything else you wanted to add. No.
 I brought Lisa today just to put a face to the program, and she's excited. She's done an outstanding job. Excellent. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Come on up. You're saving the best item for last, or not last yet, but thank you. I think I'll particularly address Dan Saltzman. I know there's been some stress around a couple people mentioning Michelle Munt. This is the type of program is why we mentioned Michelle Munt. She was a resident in Northwest Towers.
 We don't know, I don't know if there's any research out there that talks about the suicide rate for people in public housing, but this issue is about servicing people who have issues that make them in frequent contact with 911.
 There's a similar population of people who are distressed but afraid to call 911. So I hope that we can grow this program and improve outcomes for people in our city. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Sometimes I get a little bit confused what people are talking about. With paramedics mixed with homeless people and 911 calls and a social worker, sometimes I feel that it's assumed that homeless people are mentally ill and they need to be taken to a doctor.
 There was a situation with me in Christmas 2013. I caught a bad flu at Christmas, and I was throwing up in downtown Portland. And if somebody didn't know that I was really incapacitated and dizzy, you would think I was crazy and mentally ill. And if you had dragged me off, I would have insisted to go up to the VA hospital, right? And the VA said I had a very bad, severe case of stomach flu.
 and I have my personal rights to tell people to blow up. I'm just sick, okay? I'm not a homeless, mentally ill person, but I was so incapacitated. It was, the virus was going around Christmas time. And I, they took my blood, and I'm a veteran, it didn't cost me a dime. But I would have used it against people that assume that I need a social worker, that I'm kind of like this, and I'm out of it, and it's not, but that's the way I looked.
 Because I had thrown up it. I'm making a point. Watch out what you're doing here, assuming that all people who look homeless or are throwing up or on the sidewalk could be sick. Good point. Thank you. Thank you both very much. Okay, let's take a vote, please, to approve this IGA. Mr. Opsman. Well, I'm very excited about this new partnership, and I think it's going to serve –
 our residents well. I also want to acknowledge retired Chief Erin Janssens for her role in bringing this program to fruition where it is today. Aye. Aye. Novick? Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for this. This, I think, is a great idea that both it's humane, progressive, and fiscally responsible and that it will ensure that we use resources wisely in order to get people the right care. Thank you. Aye. All right. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Salzman. I also appreciate the work done by Chief Janssens and her successor and also want to note that there's potential for funding in this. So we need to keep very good data, as I know you're planning to do, so that the health care organizations can recognize that, once again, this is the City of Portland providing a public service without reimbursement from the health care system. So thank you very much.
 Yeah, thank you, Dan. This is another case of working smarter, trying to focus resources the right way. I appreciate it. Aye. Okay. A couple more members need to leave, and I think we've disposed of all the emergency ordinances, so we can continue with the rest of the calendar. And I think going back to items we have not yet addressed, the first of those is 493. 493, adopt City of Portland investment policy. Okay.
 Our treasurer is here. Good morning. Thank you for waiting. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jennifer Cooperman, City Treasurer, and I'm bringing before you the annual adoption of the City of Portland's investment policy.
 As you know, the investment policy establishes the framework for the city to invest its assets. Our objectives are to preserve principle, ensure liquidity, and earn a market return. And investment earnings net of an admin fee that covers Treasury's operating costs are distributed to city funds.
 This year, there is one small change that we are recommending, which is to change the estimated average balance of investments to reflect actual experience. The current policy states that our average balance ranges from $900 million to $1.6 billion, and we're recommending a change to change that to $1.3 billion to $1.7 billion.
 And I'd be happy to answer any questions. Otherwise, that's the only change. Just a few hundred million dollars. Nothing much. Right. We do want to be accurate. Thank you. Questions for Ms. Cooperman? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it's a resolution. And the three of us, if we agree, can approve it. So let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 Thank you, Mr. Cooper. Aye. Nails. Aye. Thank you. Okay, 494. Accept bid of Landis and Landis Construction LLC for the Tabor Sewer Rehabilitation Phase 1 project for $5,333,325. Good morning, Ms. Moody. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. We have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Landis and Landis Construction.
 The engineer's estimate on this project was $6 million. On March 24, 2016, three bids were received, and Landis & Landis is the low bidder at $5,333,325.20, which is 12.5% under the engineer's estimate. The Bureau of Environmental Services has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing as good.
 The city identified six divisions of work for potential minority women and emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. The MWESB participation on this project is at 45.6% of the total subcontract amount. Work is being performed in the areas of excavation, hauling, and storm drain work. I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions. 45% of the subcontracting work going to MWESBs. That's great. Correct. Yeah.
 Questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Is there a motion to accept the report? Move acceptance. Second. Roll call, please. Holtzman? Well, that is a very impressive participation by minority women and emerging small business contractors, so good work. Aye. No, thank you. Aye. Thank you. Aye. Okay. 496. Aye.
 correct and clarify fire regulations and adopt the 2014 Oregon Fire Code with City of Portland amendments. Mr. Sossaman. Thank you, Mayor. One of the key ways Portland Fire and Rescue is able to keep our community safe is through its prevention division. And the prevention division uses permitting and code enforcement to ensure that our buildings are following fire safety code and guidelines.
 With that, there are many rules and regulations the fire bureau has to keep up to date on. This ordinance makes minor updates to the Title 31 fire regulation code and adopts the 2016 Portland Fire Code as our own, with slight amendments from the Oregon Fire Code. Fire Marshal Nate Takara was patiently waiting here. I just told him he didn't have to stick around. But if you have any questions, I'll try to field them. Okay. Questions for Dan?
 All right. And if not, that is a, does anyone want to speak on this item? No, it's a non-emergency ordinance and it passes the second reading. Okay. 498. Approve application under the multi-unit limited tax exemption program for Jarrett Street Condominiums located at 5732 North Interstate Avenue. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm pleased to bring before you this multiple unit tax exemption program application for the Jarrett Street condominiums. This is an exciting project being built by a local developer, Lloyd Development, which will make all 12 of the newly built condominiums affordable to moderate income homebuyers, earning no more than 100 percent of the median family income, which is less than $60,000 a year for a two-person household. Thank you.
 I'll turn it over to Dori VanBockel to answer any questions or if you want to add any further comments Dori. Good morning. Good morning barely still right so yes this is a different project than we've seen with the multi program for a while in that it is a home ownership project so it's
 It is exciting to see condominium development taking hold again in Portland in the midst of this economic boom. The eligible homebuyers receiving the exemption in this case during the 10 years will have a benefit of about $1,700 a year from the tax savings that helps make these much more affordable for hopefully first-time homebuyers.
 And as is usual for the program, this has already been reviewed before our internal investment committee within the Portland Housing Bureau and also this has been heard at our housing commission meeting where public input is invited. I am happy to answer any questions.
 okay questions i just might add that this is as dory said this is exciting to have a home ownership opportunity and we always want to do these things in areas that have good opportunities and this is an area that is right along the max yellow line an area where we greatly need more home ownership opportunities and the prices are going to be well below the cap of 310 000 that we have for this program at an average of 190 000 a unit that's great
 Okay. You know, not a question, but just a comment. I don't completely understand the multifamily development business, to say the least, but I've been hearing that condominiums are difficult to do now because of trailing liability, and we were seeing a lot of condominiums built prior to the real estate recession.
 and now we're not we're seeing mostly apartments built so this is an exception in the sense that it is a condominium so it'd be i think useful for us you with both housing and and bds and all of us to try to understand what is it we can do to help make condominiums an option because i think we want to have as many different housing tools in the kit as possible and so ownership is a good idea
 condominium ownership is one option. So I'm happy to see this as condominium in that sense, and that at least somebody's figured it out. But it sounds like there's an industry problem there that, again, we may or may not be able to do anything about from the city's posture. We're not the regulator here of legal action on trailing liability. But anyway, it's something that I think we need to look into and see if we can make a difference on it.
 Yeah, I think that's a good point, and I know that liability has been an issue, but I'm also reading some real estate forecasts that say that condominiums are starting to make a comeback, despite some of the trailing liabilities. That's good. I hope so. Okay, anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it's going to pass the second reading, and we're going to move on to 499. Thank you. A portion of Northwest 101st.
 Avenue south of Northwest Thompson Road, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Novick. Lance Lindahl. Explain away. Thank you, Commissioner. The proposal before you today is a request to vacate the easterly half of a portion of Northwest 101st Avenue located south of Northwest Thompson Street. The vacation is being proposed in order for the petitioner to better restrict trespassing onto their property. Redevelopment of these properties is not planned at this time.
 The proposed vacation area is currently not improved to city standards, and the vast majority of it is closed to vehicle traffic due to the presence of a steep slope, poor stormwater management, and, well, just unbuilt facilities, and mature vegetation that's also located in the right-of-way.
 The westerly half of this street actually lies outside of the city of Portland city limits and is under the jurisdiction of Multnomah County. That portion of the street is currently being proposed for vacation through the county's road vacation process. And assuming that this vacation moves forward, PBOT staff will continue to work with the county to make sure that both portions of streets are vacated and in conjunction with one another. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 So that will then complete the hearing on this item, and it will come back for second reading next week. And I believe, unless there's anything I missed, we are completed with the morning agenda because item 503 is rescheduled. Do we need to read that in order to reschedule it, Carla? Yes. Okay.
 503 amend regulation of lobbying entities and city officials to improve administration clarify requirements and auditor duties okay let's reschedule the June 8th at 930 a.m. and we're recessed till 2 o'clock
 i'm convening the portland development commission budget committee for the purpose of receiving the budget message the budget committee members received copies of the budget on thursday april 28th i will now request that gina call the roll saltzman absent novick here fritz here welcome everyone uh i now request that the portland development commission present their budget message good afternoon
 Mr. Mayor, commissioners, I'm Tom Kelly, the chair of the Portland Development Commission. PDC is pleased to participate in today's work session of the fiscal year 2016-17 requested budget. I'm joined today by Executive Director Patrick Winton and Budget Officer Tony Barnes.
 the budget before you today was created between november and january and is informed by pdc's uh strategic plan and agency work plan which the board reviewed at its annual retreat in december all projects reviewed using guidelines but uh city guideline using guiding city policies including the portland plan and the draft 2035 comp plan
 The budget was reviewed by PDC's two budget advisory groups, the Central City Budget Advisory Committee and the Neighborhood Economic Development Leadership Budget Subcommittee, as well as PDC's board members on January 27th. Letters from the advisory groups are included in the requested budget document. Staff, stakeholders, and PDC board members were aligned on key urban renewal area project budget decisions, which include
 Complete acquisition of the U.S. Postal Service site in the River District, which the documents have been signed. Construction of the Convention Center Hotel parking garage. Implementation of Lentz Town Center projects. Implementation of the Halsey Wilder investment strategy. Construction of the Bond Avenue in North McAdam.
 Included in the budget and to be detailed in Patrick's overview are PDC's recommended general fund 5% fund cuts as well as five decision packages that would add $1.1 million in either one-time or ongoing funding to citywide economic development priorities that align with PDC's strategic plan, including the PAL Division Local Action Plan, the Small Business Increase Project, and the B Corp Program.
 As we move closer to the sunset of active urban renewal areas and recognize the limitations of TIF to move forward critical components of the PDC's strategic plan, we will begin implementing the work of PDC's Financial Sustainability Committee for next fiscal year. The committee was created at the request of the board last year with a charter to advise on the development of a business plan to guide PDC's transition to long-term financial sustainability. Thank you.
 the committee met four times from september through december and with the help of and expertise of a consultant help guide the staff to a draft a business plan that addresses the financial needs for programming projects and operations the board reviewed the information today during the board retreat in december where we agreed and communicated to the mayor how long term financial sustainability of pdc is one of our highest priorities
 Staff has been working on a business plan document since then, which we hope to bring to council soon and take action on in the coming months. So with that, I'll turn it over to Patrick. Thank you.
 Thank you, Chair Kelly. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. And, yeah, we're going to walk through. So we'll walk through the budget. And this is our full budget. So we have URA by URA descriptions. Actually, I will put the agenda up and you can see that. But I do want to leave time for discussion with all of you. I've got a few questions.
 to meet with each of you individually in advance to see what questions, to anticipate what questions you have. But, of course, we're open to any questions today. And obviously, the vote doesn't happen until next week. So we'll do an overview of the budget. Chair Kelly covered some of the highest points on that. And then we'll walk through the actual, the budget itself, starting from the overall budget, different, both on the
 Remind everybody where we are on the affordable housing set-aside, and then get into the specific urban renewal area budgets. And then we'll have two representatives from the budget advisory committees that Chair Kelly referenced, and then, as I mentioned, hopefully we'll have enough time for your questions and requests for additional information. So...
 As you know, our budget always is presented to you within a particular context, within particular priorities. Chair Kelly highlighted the most important one, which was we adopted a new strategic plan last year, and everything we do in terms of setting annual work plans and annual budgets is in service to that strategic plan. The strategic plan is very ambitious. Thank you.
 But in another respect, it also shifts the agency's work to be more explicit about public benefits, who benefits from our work, and really to think about how we create widespread prosperity within Portland. So thinking about access to employment, access to wealth creation opportunities. And so it's a gradual shift, but hopefully you can see in our budget working toward that.
 Second key issue that we're dealing with, as Chair Kelly mentioned, is our long-term business plan. And so as we are producing this business plan and hopefully present it to you soon, we are beginning to adopt some of the more obvious principles, and that really is
 trying to use our existing asset base in a way that both accomplishes the objectives of our strategic plan but also provides long-term financial sustainability. So we are thinking about how to put money to work, get money back, and put it out again. You'll see that in our forecasts. But also we're beginning to structure our investments in a way that will allow for them to be used in a more flexible way in the future.
 And lastly, as an organization, we continue to try and right-size the organization, if you will, to fit our long-term forecast. So we have another early retirement program, so we have some additional staff departures that will bring down in a gradual way staffing size, and we continue to reduce our operating expenses as well. Okay.
 Well, we have a slide on the housing set-aside, but you all know that we obviously amended the housing set-aside policy in the past year. This is the first full fiscal year in which you see the impact of that, and it is significant. So we'll talk about the shift in those dollars later.
 And then as Chair Kelly mentioned, we do have a number of key initiatives happening across urban renewal areas, and we can get into them in the specific areas. But you're seeing a lot of work happening in the Convention Center, downtown waterfront as the real estate market has been revived. River District, obviously, with the post office, Centennial Mills, so you can see the
 The money being budgeted for those purposes. And then, of course, in Gateway and Lentz, we have active work happening on different scales, but to try and make good on the promises of those urban renewal areas. So as a whole, you can see this is our –
 Our budget, we look at our budget from two angles. One is the resources and one is the expenditures. So this is the picture of resources. And as in previous years, we are sitting on significant debt proceeds from previous debt that has been issued. And so that constitutes the largest debt.
 single piece of our resource base, nearly $250 million. We have a lot of items in our budget this year, so we hope to make progress in reducing that number, but it is a significant amount of money. And then the additional resources that we project are,
 primarily come from new debt that would be issued. That's about $100 million. I think that's mainly short-term debt. So it's mainly short-term debt, not long-term debt. For the people watching at home, why do we have such a big beginning balance?
 It's debt proceeds that have been – or debt that's been issued. We have the proceeds and it hasn't been spent yet. And so in places like the Oregon Convention Center District, we issued debt a few years ago in anticipation of making an investment in the Veterans Moro Coliseum. That project hasn't happened. So we have situations like that across a number of urban rural areas. And then we have other districts where the increment continues to come in and we don't have expenditures to match that. And in River District, we have –
 money flowing in, but these major projects have all been queued up, but there hasn't been significant expenditures. So you'll see those resources flowing out. But it's really those two sources. It's both bonds that have been issued and just regular increment, basically, the money that flows in within urban renewal districts. The debt proceeds are what we're planning to issue.
 The debt proceeds in the green on that side, that's what we expect to issue. But even that is short-term, meaning that's money that we will collect throughout the year that will come into our conference. Right, so the difference between the orange and the green is one we've already borrowed and the other one we're going to borrow. Yes, yes. Thank you. And then you see the other small slices of revenue for us. This is, this helps talk about the long-term financial sustainability picture for us because if you take away the orange and the green, we're, we're, you know,
 We're a pretty small agency with very little resources. The challenge for us is to grow those other pie wedges so that they actually constitute a kind of full set of programs as the green and the orange go away.
 On the budget side, we have $293 million in proposed expenditures. So, once again, if you just look, there is about $100 million of our carryover balance that doesn't get spent. That's just because we don't have projects that are lined up to happen in this fiscal year. That money, once again, that will carry forward and fund future work, but there will remain a balance at the end of the year. The largest –
 chunk of what's going out and you'll see it in the individual projects is in property redevelopment and you'll see that that's mainly in the River District. When we get to the River District, you'll see how we get to a number of $172 million worth of expenditures, but I would expect that this coming year there would be a significant amount of money moving out the door in the agency. And then the other piece of it is obviously the housing side where while the percentage
 is only 24 percent. The number is a fairly significant number, 70 million, and we can go through that. But the set-aside, just as a reminder, it's calculated against new proceeds that come into the agency. So 24 percent represents the percentage of this total budget, but it's not 24 percent of all new proceeds. It's a much higher percentage of that.
 And then smaller amounts being spent, as you see, on things like our economic development programs, some infrastructure investments, but then the operations of the agency.
 So I've mentioned the set-aside now a few times. Here is the picture, and we'll get into individual renewal areas where we talk about the amount that's going out in 16-17. This is a picture of what is going out through 25-26, basically the remainder of the life of our existing urban renewal areas. So we have –
 $300 million really left to spend on the set-aside. The different categories are we have three closed-out districts, districts that are no longer issuing debt payments,
 When debt was issued there, there was money set aside for affordable housing. That money sits in our budget. So you see that's about $20 million. And then the remainder, about $284 million, is money that will flow into affordable housing from either existing resources or new debt in those districts. Okay.
 You can see how the amended set-aside policy played out. The percentages are very different across different urban renewal areas, with interstate having a significant, basically, the bulk of the dollars that remain in the interstate district will be going into affordable housing, so 70%. And North McAdam had a significant increase, as did Lentz, and then the rest fall pretty close to that 30% number that we've used for many years.
 As I said, we're going to have individual renewal area summaries, but I think everybody's familiar with where we are on the CETA side. So before I get into the individual renewal areas, this is a different way of showing you our five-year forecast. And so with this slide, I'm going to show you the five-year forecast.
 what this graph shows you is in the solid blue is what's included in this year's budget, 16-17 budget by category, and then the remainder of each of these bars is what's left over the remaining five years of our five-year forecast. So as an example, you look at the housing category, that $70 million budget,
 number is in the dark blue there. There's another 130 going over the next five years, and then you saw the remaining amount in the last five years of our renewal areas. Same is true on the property redevelopment side and in the other categories. It's kind of proportional over this year versus the next five years.
 What's the total number over this five-year period, Tony? Do you have that handy? So it's approximately, I want to say it's $450 million. Yeah. So that's net of transfers. Right. So if everyone's okay with moving forward, we can dive right in, and we'll start with River District since that has a lot of activity. Okay.
 So as you know, the priorities in River District remain the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan, and so that was passed by City Council two years ago. That committed the PDC to invest over $50 million in Old Town. That was across two of our renewal areas, both River District and downtown waterfront, but it is –
 There's significant activity happening within Old Town. If you walk through Old Town right now, you obviously see probably half a dozen to ten active projects. A lot of those aren't our projects, which is a great sign. So we're trying to be strategic in how we deploy resources on redevelopment projects in Old Town, knowing that there is a lot of activity.
 privately driven projects happening, but we are involved. You see the grove is work is happening on the grove. We are actively trying to find a project that we can move forward on the
 on the old fire station right uh right off right off of gleason so those are type of projects that we will be actively involved in but but um uh their their real estate market is is very active now on its own in old town one thing you'll see us and you'll see in the business plan we
 going forward is us trying to think about how we address parking issues within Old Town, not as a way to expand parking in the district, but as a way to allow for development of a surface parking lot. So if you look at the development sites in Old Town that are yet to be developed,
 to be developed and where we think activity is constrained, it's the surface parking lots. And so we would like to be able to add structured parking in Old Town sometime over the next five years as a way of allowing for those surface parking lots to be developed and meet the even minimal parking needs of development that will happen in the neighborhood. You all know very much, you all know a lot about the post office and
 I'm not going to go into the details of the transaction at this point, but we project going out in 16-17 in the post office. That's $68 million. So we will close on the –
 acquisition or we will fund to the Postal Service money to purchase the Colwood property. That's half of that number, and then the rest will be the beginning of our payment to them to fund the construction of it. That's a significant amount going out in a single fiscal year. It could be a record going out in a single fiscal year for a single project.
 well let's just put yes pause there and say thank you patrick quinton and chair tom kelly for getting that done it's been a long time coming and to me it's a win-win having the post office stay in portland and be adjacent to our coalwood facility with the park it's a much more family friendly next door neighbor than what might have gone there otherwise so i really appreciate it and it's exciting that mayor hails you've teed this up for the next mayor and whoever he or she may be
 Several mayors to come. We've been talking about this for 25 years. Yes, I think this is one urban renewal project that is not going to be overturned by the next mayor and in fact is going to be very much embraced. So congratulations all around. Thank you. Patrick deserves our thanks for pulling this off. Chair Kelly and the rest of the Board have been hugely supportive, but Patrick, you did this and you pulled this off and we have been talking about this for 25 years. At least I've been talking about this.
 I've been in conversations about it for 25 years, since Vera Katz may be the commissioner in charge of the Planning Bureau. So, you know, it's been that long, at least in my experience, and to finally –
 to pull off a seemingly simple deal. I mean, the deal basically is here's the keys to your new building. Give us the deed to your land. But there's a little more to it than that. Yeah. And it's finally been done. So amazing. Well, we really appreciate it. I'm happy to have this happen, at least the acquisition during my tenure. But really, there's an incredible team that's worked on this, and even staff who are no longer with PDC. So really all the –
 All the credit goes to them. And then I hope you don't forget, you took an action that many people might disagree with, but you basically have lent us additional money to fund the obligations in the River District to help us make this happen. So we really appreciate the city stepping out as well. We're kind of all in this together on this deal, and we're confident it's all going to work out, but we appreciate city council supporting us when we really needed it. So thank you.
 As Transportation Commissioner, I want to add my special thanks that I now have something to say to people who live in the neighborhood of the current post office who complain about the postal trucks rumbling by all the time. I can tell them, you just hang tight. They'll go away. We're doing straight. We're working on that right now. I think you might not want to mention that. Eventually. I won't mention that. Thank you.
 So I'm going to skip Unistation for a second just because that's like the next big thing. But Centennial Mills, I've briefed you on this, but we are finished with phase one of the deconstruction, as we call it. But if you've been by there, you see it really is a deconstruction, not a demolition. We've preserved the two most historic buildings. We've preserved the MPU. It allows for development to happen that can incorporate those elements if it's possible or can make future decisions. We're now...
 We're now beginning phase two of the deconstruction, and that's really to remove the top of the wharf that
 the pilings will stay in the water but remove the top of the wharf it'll expose the bank again and then there'll be bank restoration work and that'll that'll those two phases will create a development platform that really both allows for private development to happen but also allows for greater public access finishes the greenway on on that property and i think that's around six or seven million dollars in a new contract that our board approved last board meeting that will fund that work and um
 That will leave a little bit of money left in our $20 million budget for Centennial Mills that we will make available to a developer, should that be the necessary element to take on the project with the preserved elements. Patrick, when we designed and built the fields, there was a placeholder bridge to cross the tracks and connect the Centennial Mills property area.
 Given the change in the course of what we're doing with Centennial Meals, what's the status of that particular proposal? So...
 Everything that was in that original vision is still out there. I think it's all possible. It's not in our budget per se, meaning we kind of set a limit of $20 million to invest in this site. We were under budget actually on the first phase of deconstruction, the $6 million.
 The second phase is a little higher than we anticipated, so we're using up some of that excess. But it will leave around $5 million at the end that, like I said, will provide an incentive for private development
 But someone's going to have to figure out if they can incorporate that element within their budget or not, or if there's going to need to be other public dollars to add elements like the bridge. Obviously, there's no plans right now for a dock, but if somebody wants that. So that's where it's at. It's not specifically funded. It's just part of the vision. I will say and support your comment there, when we had our last open house on the topic,
 If you ask the public who came and offered their ideas and what they wanted to see, the pedestrian bridge was one of the most commonly referenced elements. So you mentioned the mounted patrol unit. Remind me what the previous budget note said regarding funding for that.
 I don't remember. So if you want to remind me, I'm happy to remind you. Well, I know it said something about whether you needed to come back to council before funding. I just wasn't sure about whether it was for relocation or for improvements to the existing facility. And this isn't an answer that obviously we need to answer right now. Do budget notes carry over, or do we need another one to make it clear that we have not authorized improvements to
 the current facility nor money for a future one. So, yeah, I mean, the current plan, just from our perspective, is rather than demolish the existing facility, when we looked at the project, we saw that the project could continue to incorporate the existing facility, so we made a decision not to demolish it. So we have an existing building.
 I don't believe it really added much in the way of cost to the demolition. So in some respects, we haven't spent any money on the new facility. There's a question that remains as to if the MPU comes back and reoccupies that facility, there is some work that has to be done on the building because it doesn't,
 It was attached to other buildings and stuff. So how that gets paid for, and then we're now in negotiations with the Portland Police Bureau on a lease because they were basically leasing it from us. So if they're going to return, we need to have lease revenue on that in order to maintain ownership of that piece of the property. So we don't have any money budgeted. This is a long way of saying it. I don't mean we have any money budgeted to do anything.
 improvements to the facility or to build them a new facility at this time. This was meant to leave the option open. Colleagues and Chair Kelly, I think that is a discussion that the new mayor will want to have. And for this year, I would suggest another budget note saying that we're not going to put money into either renovation or improvements until the decision has been made about the future of the mountain patrol. Because that's such prime waterfront land, it seems incredulous to me that it would continue to be the highest and best use of it.
 Okay. So I skipped over Union Station. Union Station is something that's going to take a long time.
 and a lot of investment to bring back online, it remains a priority for the agency to do that. And we have, you know, ongoing money going into the continued rehabilitation of it, but it's just we're just kind of making the necessary repairs to keep the facility viable. It is.
 Our estimates are it still is a $40 million project at a minimum. So we continue to put what little money we have into it, but it will become a redevelopment priority for the agency in the future. And in particular, we've talked about incorporating that into the master planning for the post office site. A number of people from Portland went to Denver actually a few weeks ago and came back talking a lot about Denver's –
 train station redevelopment and how it was part of the larger private redevelopment. And so I think people came back thinking if we can build it into the vision for the post office, we can think about it as a commercial redevelopment project as opposed to just, I think Commissioner Fish was in Denver and saw this, as
 As opposed to it being a standalone public facility that just needs a lot of public money to make it viable, we think it's still possible for it to be part of a broader commercial redevelopment of the district. And its proximity to the post office site and what will happen there, I think, is what makes it attractive and viable. I heard my name, but I just will say that my eyes were opened to the possibilities through that Denver trip.
 The fact that they saw it as a separate resource that could be activated and was, in fact, packed with people doing business and shopping. And then they created a hybrid rail and bus terminal that they had the developer pay for as a part of the privilege of having the right to redevelop the station and getting some land as part of the deal. It was pretty extraordinary. Yeah.
 And it was interesting to see a train station reimagined with a highly functioning transportation hub right next door, kind of iconic. And it makes us – I started thinking about a different – because, frankly, that train station has a lot of nice history and good bones, but it's not really activated.
 And it could be the hub of a – it could be a different – it could be a hub of the eventual redevelopment of that area and become more of a community gathering place with restaurants and other things with a different vision for how we manage the transportation piece. Yeah, we agree. We agree. It's important to –
 I don't want to be a wet blanket, but important to remember that most of what you saw in Denver was funded by FastTracks. Federal money. No, a $4.7 billion local sales tax measure. Oh, I'm sorry. There was also federal. I'm sorry. There was federal, too, but yes, sorry. Yeah. So Portland is being left behind. Yeah.
 on transit funding, even with what TriMet has in mind. By the $30 billion program in Phoenix, the $5 billion program in Denver, and
 I'm not sure how many billion dollar program in LA, but it's called 3010. They're doing 30 years worth of transit projects in 10 years. And you add all those up and again, we've spent $4 billion so far on our rail system over the course of 30 years.
 So it's pretty dramatic, the difference, because, yes, there's 50 percent federal funding through New Starts, but you still have to have the local match. Well, they did do two other things, which would be unlikely that we'd ever do here. One is that as they master planned the area around Union Station, they created a favorable plan for development and mandated no affordable housing. So you've got just this –
 huge area of high-end condos with no vision for affordable housing integrated in. And the second thing is on the high-speed, on the bus rapid transit line and some of the infrastructure they had to put in in a city that obviously is dealing with more sprawl than we have, they turned that over to the private sector and gave them the tolling as consideration for their investment. That's something that I think is highly unlikely we do regionally. Yeah.
 It's going to take some creativity. Yeah. Well, in the interest of time, I'm going to kind of go a little more quickly through the other renewal areas, but we do have an action item for our board today. As an aside, Sir Kelly is going to be stepping out in a minute because he's going to kick off the board meeting, and then I'll just –
 Tony and I will join him afterward. But Tenton Yam Hill, our IGA with PBOT, is going forward to our board today, which will put our $5 million into the rehabilitation of that facility, and hopefully we'll be in charge of the retail and make that a more attractive environment for retail downtown. Downtown waterfront is the next renewal area. Like I said, I'm going to move quickly. The important point here is this is a closed district. We live on waterfront.
 on the cash we have, the assets we have, and any kind of revenues or repayments we get from this urban renewal area. So operating in a fiscally responsible way in this district is kind of at a premium.
 When we get land sales, Third & Oak is about to sell. We sold Third & Taylor. Those funds come back in, and we're able to do things like put them in other projects as loans or address the district parking issues I mentioned earlier. So that's really the philosophy going forward. We're benefiting from what's happening in the downtown real estate market in this urban renewal area, so we do have resources coming back in, but that's not going to –
 That's not going to last forever. Congratulations on the third NOC deal, by the way. I was at the Japan American Society 60th anniversary celebration last night, and the excitement in the Japanese community about the fact that we have this Japanese hotel chain coming to only the third place in the United States, New York, Atlanta, and now Portland, on a site that was kind of written off for dead because of the difficulties of redeveloping it. Nice work. Well, thank you. Thank you.
 Convention Center, as we've mentioned, we have the big expenditure there is the Convention Center Hotel Garage. I've talked with, I think, each of you individually about this, but we are – you know, we've stepped up to build the garage as part of the hotel. The hotel would have a garage. It would be built by somebody. We view it as an opportunity. It would be a prime asset in that –
 90% of the revenues on the garage are going to come from valet parking. So as garages go, it does represent a good opportunity. So it does allow us to put our money to work, money that's been sitting, as you saw in an earlier slide, as cash. We get to put it to work, and we can refinance that money out and put that to work in the district in later years and hopefully at some point put money to work in the Rose Quarter, which I think we all hope to see.
 So, sorry to interrupt again, but I wanted to, while I have Chair Kelly here, put my two cents in about that, and that would be to have ground floor retail in that garage. I know that there's some talk of having an agreement with TriMet for the transit police, but that's right next to the Rose Quarter Transit Center would be a wonderful place to have some vibrant, active life. So we are working with TriMet on that.
 sale of the ground floor as a condo to allow them to move transit police there that would help finance the garage. I think we need to talk with TriMet about the design and how there's a way to... Even one corner to have a little something would be great. Essentially, side
 I think, once again, these are priorities we've talked about extensively here and individually. The Clinton Triangle redevelopment, hopefully we'll have an opportunity to move forward on that. We have money budgeted for the infrastructure.
 And that piece, which we think is necessary to unlock development on those parcels, I know that there's still question, Council, about where the Fire Bureau activities go. And so that obviously is going to happen at a later date. But we stand ready to make that investment and believe that it is an appropriate place, a catalytic spot in the district, particularly given light rail. But then the other big piece is we continue to inch closer and closer to a deal to buy the three parcels that we refer to as the ODOT blocks.
 and that would allow us to then proceed with development there. Small-scale redevelopment site relative to something like the post office, but equally catalytic. And I think right now the priority that we have for those sites is to figure out if we can help contribute to affordable industrial space in the neighborhood. And so our ownership of those parcels would allow us to do that. Okay.
 Good point where I think I'm going to bow out. Thank you. And I'm sure these two will keep notes if there's anything else you want to pass along to me. Thank you. Thanks, Tom. Thank you, Tom. Patrick, on the ODOT box and what you just described as a possible use, would we be able to pilot some live workspace or affordable space for artists within that context?
 I mean, I can't say yes or no on that right now. I think we are early in thinking about models for how we would – what ownership would look like of that space and kind of what the economics would look like. So I know that there are a lot of activities, a continuum, if you will, there, from people who are making things and artists and whatnot. And so what the economics look like on affordable industrial space –
 And for whom, we still have to figure that out, but I think it should be on the table is, I guess, the way I would respond. I know RAC has begun that conversation. Internally, let's just make sure that RAC and PDC are talking. Yep.
 So I'm going to take a break as well. You all know Sarah Stevenson from Innovative Housing. She is on our Central City Budget Committee. She's here to testify, but she has to leave, and so we want to allow her to testify before she goes. Thank you for accommodating my schedule. So as you said, I'm here to testify on behalf of the Central City Budget Advisory Committee, which is made up of a diverse group of stakeholders from the Central City URAs.
 This is my second year serving on the committee, and I just wanted to say that I was really pleased this year to see that the recommendations we made last year were taken to heart by PDC. And particularly as somebody who cares very much about affordable housing, I've been happy to see the increased coordination and cooperation between PDC and the Portland Housing Bureau. That's one of the things our advisory committee asked for last year, and it's been significantly improved and really exciting this year to see that.
 I also serve on the PDC Financial Sustainability Workgroup that Tom Kelly mentioned earlier. And I just wanted to share with you that the Central City Budget Advisory Committee also
 wholeheartedly supports all the efforts of that sustainability committee as well, and many of our budget recommendations were crafted with an eye towards PDC's ongoing sustainability. To that effect, we'd like to encourage both PDC's commission and the City Council to commit to long-term funding, an approach that allows PDC to continue its role as the city's redevelopment and economic development agency. Thank you.
 I'd like to highlight just a couple of the recommendations that our group made to PDC around the central city budget this year. We recommended that PDC maintain its $57 million five-year funding commitment to the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan.
 that's been mentioned. We support rebalancing between the River District and the Downtown Waterfront URA, as the funding for both of those URAs have changed. Proactively exploring shared district parking opportunities and strategically pursuing new land acquisition and or redevelopment investments in the district.
 Those investments specifically, we'd like them to align with the pilot housing SDC waiver and otherwise encourage development of market rate housing to help achieve greater income diversity in Old Towne.
 The committee also supported PDC's continued efforts at key central city sites that offer strategic opportunities to accomplish long-time community-based goals and generate lasting financial support for PDC. Examples of these opportunities have been mentioned, the post office, Clinton Station, strategic locations in the central east side like the ODOT blocks, and district parking investments throughout the central city.
 We'd also recommended that PDC preserve as much flexibility as possible within the central city URAs to invest resources in strategic opportunities as they arise, whether that be land acquisition or key activities such as seismic or fire and life safety improvements. Thank you.
 So those are some of the larger recommendations we made. You know, while Portland's facing a lot of challenges, we think it's a really exciting time for the city and for PDC, and that PDC's role is critical to moving forward in a lot of these areas. So thank you for your time. Thank you, Sarah. Appreciate it. Thank you. I'm going to leave, too. Thank you. Thank you so much.
 We're going to quickly run, we're going to finish up with North McAdam and then go through the neighborhood ones, and then we'll bring Brian Alfano will come up and offer the neighborhood committee perspective. So North McAdam, the bulk of our dollars next fiscal year going into the parcel three affordable housing development, so that obviously came out of the conversation last year around the set-aside. So we would, I think that's pretty much.
 that's fully funded during the next fiscal year. And the remaining dollars are related to the contributions to the Bond Avenue construction in the north part of South Waterfront, as well as some additional money available for commercial development around PSU, which is, once again, part of the amended priorities for the amended district. Patrick, there's a comment in your covered memo to us that says,
 some parcel 3 money has been moved to FY17-18 based on revised cash flow projections. So that doesn't affect the overall amount. Is that just a question of the timing of the amount? That's correct, Commissioner. It's a timing for parcel 3 projects. It's a timing question. And Patrick, since we last spoke, the Southwest bond issue has gotten even a little more complicated because of a legal decision.
 Where do we stand right now in trying to scope that out? Because the cost of that project could change pretty dramatically based on a legal rule.
 Yeah, I don't want to speak for PBOT. The budget for North McAdam is pretty tight because I think all of us worked through the complete full forecast on that. So we don't have a ton of extra money to move into bond to cover it. So I think PBOT is trying to problem solve around what the additional cost related to bond, how that's going to be funded. But that's really where we're at. And the impact of the FEMA ruling. Yeah, yeah.
 We'll muddle through that. So on to our...
 neighborhood URAs starting with interstate. Once again, interstate still has a benefit of having significant remaining indebtedness. So what you see in the bar chart here kind of distorts the total amount going to this year. But housing is the most significant investment out of interstate in the coming fiscal year. And then we will move forward on the
 commercial development on MLK in Alberta, what's now the natural grocers development. We have some work on Lombard, but the main remaining work that we're doing in the interstate urban renewal area with the remaining non-housing
 tax increment is working with stakeholders in North and Northeast to really identify priorities and figure out the best way to spend those remaining dollars. So you can see a significant amount of money left in the district. But if you subtract out housing and other commitments, there really is about $30 million left
 that we're trying to program and have it be really driven by, by, uh, by the stakeholders in, in North and Northeast Portland, as I mentioned. So, so there'll be more clarity on that throughout the year and probably our next budget will have particular priorities identified through that process. Lens town center, um,
 significant amount of money flowing out to the four redevelopment projects that we've shared with you. So, you know, so Asian Health Service Center, the Weds Dame project that's right on the fall, so the Palindrome project that actually crosses both sides on 92nd, and
 And then later on, maybe this year, but probably next year, will be the Rose project on the back end of that Foster Road site. There's some additional money that's targeted to streetscape improvements, and then we still do a fair amount of business development work along those. You know, Foster is a pretty extensive commercial corridor, so we do continue to invest there. And I think we're scheduled to put money to work.
 in Leach based on an agreement from a few years back. But the bulk of dollars in Lentz are going into those four projects. And there's housing dollars, as you well know, that are going in those projects too. So the sum total is significant.
 I think you're all aware that in the new housing NOFA, the 72nd and Foster property, which is a property that we acquired with housing, was part of that NOFA. And so that's a project that's now teed up, but that won't be funded in this coming fiscal year. That will be in the future fiscal year. Cross the street and go to Mercado. That's not – Exactly. Exactly. Okay.
 And then we have Gateway, where, you know, dollars have, relative to the other renewal areas, have been somewhat limited, but we do have activity happening in Gateway. Commissioner Fritz was able to talk
 break ground on the new park at 106 and Halsey over the weekend. We have an adjoining one-acre parcel that was also included as part of the PHB NOFA, so there was a developer selected there. I think there's some ongoing conversations about how that site will be used. So,
 I don't know if we can say exactly what's going to happen on that site, but our hope is that something will be happening on that site shortly. And then tonight we actually have the open house for the Gateway Action Plan, and we're trying to finalize, once again, the priorities for Gateway over the next few years. And so a lot of the work that we've been doing in Gateway, besides the 106th property, is really around the Halsey-Weidler Corridor and what it looks like to get
 to generate more commercial activity along that couplet. And so we want to have money available to do that. And then there's some streetscape work as well in Gateway. Okay.
 so colleagues you may have been getting input from community members about that one acre property next to the gateway discovery park and i would like us to have a work session at some point in the next month or two to have a discussion about it i think it is something that could be a catalytic project for the entire gateway urban renewal district and i know there's a lot of
 interest in the community for that. So how to make that happen I think would be a good council discussion to have in a work session. So I hope you'll agree to schedule that. Patrick, aren't there three moving pieces? There's the park, the parcel that you have, and then there's the proposed development on the plaza. Where are we on the proposed development on the plaza piece? The plaza is part of the park design.
 you have to have the part of the design but there needs to be a plan to build on it now that's that's the one acre parcel that's the one acre parks parcel is what we're talking about your piece there's a plaza as part of the park design that's adjacent to our one acre parcel but i have some recollection of this because i was the parks commissioner we did it there's a plaza and there was a there was a there was a state a placeholder for having a building
 And I like the way you're doing this, Commissioner. Yes. On the parks piece. And then there's the one acre that you have that's on the back side. Yeah, I may not be as familiar with the design. Is there a structure prepared for the plaza? I'm not aware of that. I was asking where we are on that. That's why we're having the work session. Well, we'll have the work session because I know that you're very invested in that. There's also an adjacent property that could potentially be purchased. And so that's...
 It's an amazing area that deserves our full attention, and I know that we have PDC's commitment to do that. Hopefully we'll have the housing commissioner also engaged in that process. And so last is the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative districts. These are all actual urban renewal areas, as you know. They're pay-as-you-go. They've performed from a tax increment perspective. They've performed in kind of varying ways. They don't – the activities –
 that are happening in those districts aren't fully funded by tax increment. And so you supplement the work, the county supplements the work and we do with various other sources, general fund revenue sharing, as well as money that we get from E-Zone.
 So we will continue to – I mean, they're very successful. I think we're all happy with the progress there. But this is obviously not a very typical urban renewal area. And I think it helps us understand the dynamics of doing urban renewal in the areas that need the most investment, meaning it's hard to create increment in these neighborhoods. So we need to figure out other ways to fund the work. So, Mayor, you put in your proposed budget money for the sugar shack, which I support. And is that –
 It's not an MPI district. Is that PDC have oversight of that or is it something on our side?
 Oh, I think the funding gets routed through PDC because it's a PDC loan that's being paid off. Yeah. Yes. So, yeah, it's included in our budget as part of the mayor's requested budget. And then, yeah, we would. You would administer it. Yes. Yes. And we have an existing loan to the sugar shack, and we continue to have conversations with Living Culling around that. Food service, food, whatever vision that they have. Yeah, NICU USA is the, yeah.
 And how was that? That's done in an urban renewal district, correct? That's in the Cully NPI. In the Cully NPI. Yes. How about the Oak Leaf Trailer Park? Is that within the Cully Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative? I don't believe it is.
 Not that one. I don't know. Or in the 42nd Avenue one? Because I think we're going to hear testimony tomorrow night in the budget process to look at a similar proposal to loan money to the residents of that trailer park to be able to buy the property and then pay it back. So I just want to raise that as something you could look at. We can look and see where it resides. The boundaries are narrow enough.
 And the MPI is because they mainly conform to the commercial district, but we can double-check and see where it is. Yeah. I think the community is looking for creative solutions there, and so whether it's PDC money or general fund money or how we can make that happen, I don't know.
 I know we're going to get testimony on it. Thank you. So with that, I would like to bring up Brian Alfano, who's been with us for a number of years in the Neighborhood Economic Development Leadership Group. So I first want to thank Brian for his service. He really has been a great partner. But he does double duty in serving on the budget subcommittee and has testified from the committee a number of times. So thank you, Brian. Let's also acknowledge he's the outgoing chair of the Venture Portland Board. So thank you for your time. Thank you.
 At least you're not going to make me stand again and embarrass me. We'll do that this afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. Thank you for having me. My name is Brian Alfano, and I'm here today in my capacity as the chair of the Neighborhood Economic Development Leadership Group Budget Subcommittee. That's a mouthful. Generally, the mayor's recommended budget is well aligned with the PDC's proposed budget, and
 and the recommendations of the subcommittee. This budget will fund important projects and activities in the neighborhood URAs. In Gateway, this budget will allow construction of street improvements on the Halsey-Weidler couplet, construction of the Gateway Park at 106th and Halsey. More than 100 people attended the groundbreaking ceremony on Saturday. Pre-development for mixed-income housing at 106th and Halsey.
 In Lentz, the budget will allow pre-development and construction of three key mixed-use, mixed-income developments in the Lentz Town Center. Construction of the Foster Road streetscape improvements. This was strongly supported by the Foster Area Business Association. Construction of improvements that substantially redesign the Leach Botanical Gardens.
 And in interstate, the budget will allow construction of Alberta Commons project that will bring natural grocers to a long vacant site at MLK in Alberta. Implementation of the Lombard investment strategy. Implementation of the North Northeast neighborhood housing strategy, including grant warehouse project. Budgets in the URA areas also continue key grant and lending programs that are important to wealth creation for small businesses.
 With regard to the general fund budget, we are appreciative that the mayor's budget continues to support the programs that increase access to economic opportunities for communities of color, those with low incomes, and neighborhoods lacking in commercial investment opportunities.
 investments in the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative and Main Street Network, small business technical assistance and adult and youth workforce development, and business district technical assistance and grants. These touch thousands of businesses and individuals each year throughout the city and are a critical part of a healthy economy.
 The NED Leadership Group Budget Subcommittee continues to be concerned about the prioritization of the new B Corp program. We strongly recommend that Council instead fund the Powell Division BRT Action Plan and or continuation of the increase project. We believe that both of these initiatives will have a direct positive impact on economic opportunities for residents and businesses.
 The Budget Subcommittee did not discuss providing additional funding for Venture Portland nor funding for the Sugar Shack Living Coley Plaza project. And while these projects are in good alignment with the NED program, the Budget Subcommittee has no position on these.
 However, as the immediate past president of Venture Portland, I'd be remiss if I didn't remind all of you today about the testimony and strong support of the funding of the East Portland business district leaders provided before this body in February and the record breaking success this program has had over the last six months. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much, Brian. Questions for him? Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thanks, Brian. I really appreciate it. So we're basically done with our presentation. I will just add at the end that we're aware that there's ongoing conversations about the general fund budget. We understand that in the mayor's proposed budget there were ads to our budget that were
 that may, I don't know how your conversations are going to go, but I can imagine if you're looking for cuts, you might be looking at the ads. So, you know, we continue to return to our original priorities, original recommendations of our committees that we, you know,
 The neighborhood committee in particular had very explicit recommendations about prioritization before kind of all this. And we, in generally speaking, want to restore our cuts before ad packages. That's been our position, and we would continue to hold that. Happy to be pulled into any conversations in the interim, but in generally speaking, that's been our prioritization. Restore cuts. Sure.
 and then let's look at our ads. We have a work session on Monday. Okay. Is that in your calendar? Probably not. I think it's important. It's probably going to be added. I think it's important that you and your team be here because there will be questions and a lot of moving pieces. Patrick, I guess this is your last budget. This is. So I want to begin by thanking you for your service and the relationship you've had with the council and your good work. You can be very proud of the work you've done during your tenure. Thank you.
 And second, someone, I think either the Chair or someone, referred in passing to the long-term financial sustainability work you're doing. I continue to hope that at some point as part of that process,
 at reimagining a PDC that becomes less dependent on TIF and maybe more self-sustaining through other tools, that we at least address the question of whether certain properties currently being managed by the city through OMF should be transferred to PDC for the purpose of developing and capturing some kind of ongoing revenue stream.
 something the mayor has discussed in the past. Obviously the post office site development really opens the door to a different view about maintaining a long-term interest in the lease, in the land, and then developing. But we also have some properties that the city manages that, you know, there might be an argument that if we transferred them to PDC with some conditions, it might generate some long-term income.
 potential that could then fund other activities. So is that part of the – Yes. Is that on the table in those – Yeah, so we're sharing just a quick timing update. We are sharing a first draft of this business plan we've been talking about with the Financial Sustainability Committee that Sarah serves on, and it's included in that draft, the notion that in addition to how we manage our own real estate portfolio, that we would make either asks or entering conversations with the city –
 and other public agencies, for that matter, about how we might administer the properties that have development potential there as a way to maximize return for both the owners of the property as well as PDC. We do think there's underutilized assets there. So, yeah, it's definitely something that
 We'll put it on the table with the business plan. It would be up to my successor and others to carry that, but we think it should be on the table. Well, and I think in discussing this, we're not in any way being critical of the historic role of the city of managing property, but the city manages property with one lens, and PDC might be able to manage and develop some of that property with another lens. And to the extent it generates property,
 more return for the taxpayers and helps you get to a path of financial self-sufficiency all the better. Yeah, we're the city's development agency. But again, thank you for your service. We'll have another opportunity to embarrass you and thank you. Many. Sure. I guess you vote next week. You can really embarrass me with the vote. No, I'm joking.
 This is plenty of time to start pulling together ammunition. All right. Any other questions or follow-up items for Patrick or Tony? Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. So I am going to...
 No hearing. I'm going to continue this hearing of the PDC Budget Committee until tomorrow evening at 5.30, at which point we will take testimony. Mayor, can we take a five-minute break? We will take a five-minute break if you'd like, and then come back and do comp plan. Get organized here. Speaking of. Hey, how are you guys? Good.
 You bring a box. Yeah. You guys are serious. No, this is just the material. Almost ready? Okay. Good afternoon. Welcome to the afternoon meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome, everyone. Would you read the item on the agenda, please?
 Item 505, adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update of Portland's comprehensive plan. Accept report of the Citizen Involvement Committee.
 Item 506, adopt a new comprehensive plan for the City of Portland, Oregon. Great, thank you. So welcome, everyone. The decisions being made today are for the purpose of establishing an as-amended plan so that our staff can prepare final findings for our consideration. The final vote for the as-amended plan is scheduled for June 15th.
 We have an agenda developed for today to allow us to walk through amendments and make decisions on amendments that have already been offered. I do want to make it clear that the votes today do not indicate or prejudice the vote that we each will cast on the findings and the final plan. In other words, voting to adopt amendments does not commit someone to voting for the as-adopted plan.
 as we make motions today i ask all of us to refer to the amendment numbers printed in the original bps report from march 18th if you are referring to further amendments or amendments to those amendments please reference the appropriate supplemental memo if you can by date and item number or ask our staff to help you with that if you can't remember
 And so again, we will ask our clerk to read the descriptions like we did before so that we stay on track because there's just a lot of amendments on a lot of subjects in a lot of places. And so both the council members can stay clear on what we're considering and so folks that are here or following this process can. We'll try to keep following that procedure in each of these hearings as we work our way through amendments.
 So, with that, I think it's ready. I'm ready to turn it over to the team, and we can start down the list. Good afternoon. My name is Eric Engstrom with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. As the mayor indicated, we're here today to talk about amendments to the recommended comp plan. This is the second of two sessions to do that, and if we don't get through the agenda today, then we'll talk about how to continue this.
 You should have before you a May 11th agenda which lists the items that we're going to consider in the order, and we'll use that to go through the items. And, of course, if you have questions, we anticipate questions. Staff are here to help answer those. Thank you.
 There's some of you may be working from your own notes from staff, and I just wanted to let you know that we did update the agenda today very slightly by adding some errata items to the end. So if you're working off your own notes, that's fine until practically the last page, and I'll note where those corrections have been made as we went. But you should also have a copy of the new version just in case. So can I just do a time check? We're going until 6 o'clock?
 I think that's right. We're going to go to 6 o'clock. We're striving for that. I actually have to leave at 6 to get to another event. Yeah, I do too. So I think we'll go to 6 o'clock. All right.
 And in fact, if it looks like we are not going to get done by 6, there may be a merciful ending at 5.30 if we're going to go over anyway. Okay, we'll see how we're doing. Just saying, it's been a long day. A time off for good behavior or bad behavior? I'm not sure which. We'll see how we're doing. So the first couple items are a few other bundles with multiple amendments packaged together that have a similar theme. And there's just a few of those this time. We held a few as a courtesy to Commissioner Fish, who may be interested in some of those topics.
 And then after that, we start going into individual items that had been held over or flagged for individual consideration. That's the bulk of today's agenda, so it's kind of the harder items. We're starting with the map items because that has a bigger effect on our findings and our final ordinance, and so we want to make sure that we get as much of that done as possible.
 and then we'll go into a few of the remaining policy items towards the end. And as I mentioned, we sent a few corrections to your staff this morning, which I'll highlight as we get to those. Any process questions before we get into that? So I think that starts us, and we numbered starting from the one we left off on last time, so the first item should be related to the age-friendly city policy amendments list. So you want someone to move it?
 So I move to adopt the age-friendly city policy amendments list. Carla, would you please read the description of that item? This includes policy amendments 72, 91, and 94. Okay. And, Mayor, I'd like to make a motion to pull 94 for separate consideration to unbundle it. Okay.
 Is there a second on that motion to poll 94? On those kinds of motions, I think as long as we're not substantively doing it, it's a courtesy. I'll second. That's right. I'll second. Okay. We don't need to second this. That's right. So we'll act on 72 and 91 then instead of on 94. Any further discussion on action on that amendment? Okay. So let's take a vote, please, on that item as amended. Fish? Aye. Holtzman? Aye.
 Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hale. Aye. Okay. So now I'll move to adopt the Affordable Housing and Anti-Displacement Policy Amendments List. Carla, would you please read the description? Oh, do you want to deal with 94 first? Let's go back and deal with 94. Let's not get lost, right? And 94 is on what page? Page 42. Yeah. Or 41 if you're looking. Camille, I need my larger book. So I think...
 Oh, it's on 42 in the packet. Yeah, the new packet or 41 of the previous draft. In the new one. Yeah.
 This was Paul. Okay, Steve, what's your concern about this? So this is one where BPS staff recommended no change. PBOT noted that there's a similar objective already in the TSP under 622, under separate cover. Another suggestion was if you wanted to have this, it could be better off in Chapter 8 as it relates to improvements to the right-of-way. And finally, if we wanted to elevate the – if we do want to elevate this to a policy anywhere, staff suggest using the word encourage rather than provide.
 rather than saying it's part of the comprehensive plan that we will provide such facilities. Is that your amendment? So my amendment, actually, I oppose the proposal, but those are other ways of dealing with it if council wants to pass it anyway. And why do you oppose it? Because we don't think it's necessary. So I can support it with the change to encourage changes and have some other council support. Okay. So Commissioner Novick, moves that we change provide to encourage, and that's seconded by Commissioner Fritz. Okay.
 So what's the – let's just explicate that for a second. What's the effect of that change? So it would be a new policy, and I'm agnostic as to whether it goes in this place or somewhere else, but the policy would state that pedestrian amenities encourage facilities that enhance pedestrian enjoyment, such as transit shelters, garbage containers, benches, et cetera, in the right-of-way.
 Yes, but what's the difference in effect from changing provide to encourage? Provide may imply that you're going to build those things, and encourage is a more gentler word.
 I actually prefer provide because there's a lot in this comprehensive plan that there's a lot of competing policies that we don't have the funding for. So stating a more strong policy would be my preference. But if others are concerned about that, I can go with encourage. Okay. Further?
 I'm sorry because I wasn't at the last hearing. Has BPS weighed in on whether they are support or not this amendment? We had initial, I think the comments here reflect PBOT considerations were
 We're kind of agnostic on this, but we agree that the word encourage may make more sense. You support the amendment but are otherwise agnostic, and PBOT opposes it. Is that right? But wanted to change. Yeah, I think they're willing to change, but otherwise. They're not opposed to the concept. They just had a different idea about where it should be within the hierarchy of policies. Let's test first. Let's make the amendment and then see where we are. Let's see where we are. Okay. Ready to take a vote on that amendment? Call the roll, please.
 aye aye aye aye and Steve can I just ask you just so I'm clear from PBOT's point of view now that it's amended what's your position that it's unnecessary at all but if it is going to be here it should be in chapter 8 rather than in chapter 9 and I'm fine with that
 So is that a friendly amendment, or does that require another vote? It's a friendly amendment. You can place it where you want, can't you? Well, I think if we just got instructions, it would be clear. Chapter 8 is – or this section of Chapter 8 are related to public rights, a way we can just add this policy to that, correct? So if we would just get that direction, it would be fine. Okay. Okay.
 So do you need a motion? You need a motion. Okay. So Commissioner Novick moves to put this language in Chapter 8 instead of 9. And to adopt it, right? We'd have to do another vote after that. So we're going to take this vote in one motion to adopt this now amended language but place it in Chapter 8. Okay. Roll call, please. Aye. Bucksman? Aye. Novick? A grudging aye. Fritz? How about a generous aye? Aye.
 Ailes. Aye. Okay. Thank you. Now I'll move on to number 34, and I'll move to adopt the affordable housing and anti-displacement policy amendments list. Is there a second? Second. Okay. Carla, would you please read that item?
 This includes policy amendments 46, 47, and 71. See page 42 for details. This bundle does not include P45, middle housing, P48, mobile home parks, P49, housing continuum, and P15 and 70, community benefits, which have been pulled for individual consideration. Okay. Okay.
 Any discussion? Any questions about these three policy statements? Okay, let's take a vote, please, on those. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. All right, number 35. Move to adopt the community involvement policy amendments list. Carla, would you please? I'm sorry, is there a second? Second. Would you please read that item?
 This includes Policy Amendments 105 and 106. It also includes Items 1 and 2 from the Fritz Memo dated April 13 about Goal 2F and a new policy about the adequate funding of community involvement. See page 43 for details. This bundle does not include P5 and P9 stakeholder groups, P8 neighborhood associations, and business associations.
 P11 open data which have been pulled for individual consideration. Okay. Any questions or concerns about this language that we now have here? Okay. Ready to take a vote on this one? I just have one I shared. There was another one that I had asked for and I'm not sure if it's included in this package from a previous memo on GP2-11 on adequate funding and human resources.
 is that part of this or and was it in the erota list that's i yes that's part of that that's the one that i think that she just referred to so we've already the adequate funding is for one of those so it's we're good thank you okay roll call please yes hi saltsman hi novick hi hi hey
 Okay. Now we're going to move to map amendments, right? We're done with policy for now. So the first one of those is number 36, which is S8, the Portland Nursery property. So this was requested by Commissioner Saltzman. Any discussion before we take a vote on this? Sorry, I'll move to adopt amendment 36.
 number s8 as you go through these map items if you would like any photographs or maps to accompany the discussion we have that on the PowerPoint yeah and I know it's nice to see the person speaking but I think for purposes of this discussion we ought to try to just use the whole slide for the map it's pretty hard to see otherwise
 So this amendment concerns the back half of the Portland Nursery site at 5050 Southeast Stark, which the amendment seeks to redesignate as mixed use. The Planning Commission recommendation was that the mixed use be on the front portion of the site where the buildings are and that the back half retain residential designations with the caveat that we do some code work to clarify that nurseries can be conditional uses in residential zones. Okay.
 So, in other words, to develop this property, redevelop this property, if the whole property were redeveloped, it would most likely require a conditional use process. Correct. The result of a no vote on this would be that staff will continue to work on that code issue and with a process for conditional use for nursery expansion or changes in the residential zone.
 That's code to be developed. To be developed and come back to you. Are we all clear on the effect of this one? The concern of the neighborhood is that a yes vote on this amendment would allow potentially big box development on this site should the nursery go away completely. So I think the planning commission tried to strike a balance between allowing the current uses and allowing for a conditional use process.
 Yeah, I think there are a lot of cases like this where the current property owner is one thing and maybe some other property owner would be different and zoning doesn't discriminate. We can hope that always people will be responsible but that's not necessarily enough. Okay, we ready to vote? Roll call, please. No. Well, I will continue to support this amendment, although I am encouraged to hear about the allowing nurseries to be a conditional use. I think that
 It's pretty safe to say from my feeling that this property will remain Portland Nursery for the foreseeable future for at least 20 years. And this was a request that the family has made to provide them some certainty as well as flexibility. And I don't think, you know, big box retail is really the fear I have at this point for the next 20 years. So I will vote yes. No, thank you.
 I understand the concerns Portland Nurseries raise, and I want to say that we value them as a great business and neighbor in our city, but I think staff have offered a practical compromise in allowing nursery operations as a conditional use in residential zones. This change gives the business the opportunity to obtain a conditional use and be able to make improvements in their buildings on the residential zone portion of their property while also giving neighbors some certainty. No. Prince, no. Fails. No. Okay, so that amendment fails. All right, the next map amendment is...
 Number 37. And here we've divided into two multiple pieces. Go ahead, please, Eric. We have bundled these together because they both are the golf courses related to the employment designation question, and we thought that this made sense to discuss as one package. You may recall the –
 M33 amendment would remove the industrial sanctuary designation from the M34 designation amendment would remove the industrial sanctuary from Riverside Golf Course and restore it to open space and the M33 would add
 add the industrial sanctuary to Broadmoor, so essentially it was a swap. You may vote on these individually or separate, but they were presented initially as a pair. And just to be clear, if the council votes both, you've now consolidated them. So if we vote the package down, then the result is that the PSC recommendation stands, which is industrial sanctuary designation on Riverside.
 without moving anything to Broadmoor, correct? Right. If you vote against both, you would effectively be retaining the PSC recommendation, which is what you just said. Okay.
 okay so voting on these individually though we can motions but we can take them individually okay so Commissioner Fritz moves amendment number M 30 under Broadmoor first Commissioner Fritz moves amendment m33 which is the Broadmoor amendment okay there by clear on that
 So this amendment would be adding the industrial sanctuary designation on a portion of the site as requested by the property owner. All right. Everybody clear on that? Okay. Then let's take a vote, please, on Amendment M33. I'm a strong no on this amendment, and I just want to explain my vote. When we started discussing the comp plan, Riverside Golf Course came to the city and asked not to have the industrial zoning on their property.
 and their neighbor Broadmoor essentially offered to take all or a portion of it. I think at the time it might have sounded like a good idea and a rare instance of an easy solution. I think it quickly became apparent to me and others that there are no real easy solutions in this area, and then we started hearing testimony from lots of stakeholders. We've heard passionate testimony from the community about this property and about the birds and turtles and watershed health.
 the bureau of environmental services joined the chorus of voices urging us not to approve this swap i've listened carefully to all the testimony and i cannot support switching the industrial zoning under board more no uh no no i second commissioner fish's comments no
 and to be clear board more is converting as under the Planning Commission's recommendation there is a portion it's that we don't agree to have more because a compromise was worked out no no m33 fails
 And now, would you like to move Amendment 34, Commissioner Fritz, as well? I'm moved. I'll second that. Okay. So this one removes the industrial designation from Riverside, right? Correct. This would be an amendment to the Planning Commission recommendation and would remove the industrial designation from Riverside.
 The effect of that, we explained a little bit last week, is related to the EOA, the Employment Opportunities Analysis, and the balance of industrial land. The result of removing Riverside would leave us in a somewhat negative balance in the land supply equation within the EOA for this particular geography. Tom, do you want to go over that at any – oh, yeah, there's a –
 that I can put up that sort of walks you through the outcome of the different amendments. So you've already said no to M-33, so you essentially are left with the choice of either the first row or the last row in terms of where that leaves you with the balance.
 If you vote no on this as well, you're essentially maintaining the PSC recommendation, which would leave us with a balance of 52 acres in the harbor and airport districts, 92 overall within all industrial areas. If you vote yes,
 Yes, on this you would leave us with a three-acre deficit in this geography, which would join the – Tom, remind me. Twenty-five acres. Twenty-five-acre deficit on the lands with direct access to the river, so we would have two out of our three employment geographies with a negative number, albeit small negatives. So I'm getting lost in the double negatives here. So are we –
 Are you recommending, given the vote on M33, are you recommending a no on M34? We are. If I might speak in support of M34.
 We heard a lot of testimony from the property owners that they have no intention of changing this to industrial land in the foreseeable future. So I think we need to be accountable in our designation. And rather than pretending that we're going to have industrial development here in the next 20 years,
 go back to that consideration of the underlying questions, which are, is there support for the moderate forecast for the industrial lands inventory with regard to harbor and airport land?
 And maybe that's one of the choices is to – the port and others said that we could get there without West Haven Island. And we previously heard we could get there without Riverside. This is relatively new information that without any industrial zoning on Riverside that there is a deficit of this particular kind of land in this particular location. And so I'm looking to the planning staff to look at what are –
 These are not the only two properties in that geography that could be industrially zoned. What are other options? Tom Armstrong with BPS.
 You know, this question has come up. We've looked at this issue and looked for properties to convert to industrial and employment uses for the last six years. We had the Industrial Lands Watershed Health Work Group that came up with the proposal to designate Riverside as industrial for future use.
 We looked at a lot of different options. I think we've turned over pretty much every rock. I mean, we even discussed the possibility of PIR going to industrial development.
 So I don't think there is any other parcel out there that hasn't been looked at and sort of not proposed for other reasons. We looked at the St. John's landfill. We looked at some other properties out there as to what might be available to help satisfy our needs.
 our industrial land needs. I think what we came back with was a combination that allows us to take the medium cargo forecast in the harbor access lands
 and count the existing capacity, it still shows us a small deficit there. We were going to meet that with the surplus in the rest of the Harbor Upland area and the Columbia Corridor, but taking Riverside –
 not having either Broadmoor or Riverside as an industrial designation takes us below that threshold and makes that strategy a little bit harder to work. Can I ask a legal question? Because Commissioner Fritz, I think, is getting at a very important potentially legal or policy question. In almost every instance where we're designating industrial land,
 We're leaving to the market and to future contingencies whether it is actually developed. We cannot mandate that. So in a sense, there is a level of uncertainty about whatever, maybe the shades of gray that
 But the fact that today the golf course says we're not interested, that could change tomorrow if someone came and made an offer that no one could resist. So legally, what is the standard that we have to apply here? Do we have to reasonably believe it will be developed, or are we just designating land that could be developed?
 I think the reasonable level is there based on the evidence before you, but we make those reasonable assumptions about what will redevelop for all different types of land. For central city office buildings, will surface parking lots develop in the future or not?
 Without any indication or preference from the property owner, we do that all along our centers and corridors. We assume, based on what we've seen from development trends, what is likely to redevelop and what doesn't, and that's what goes into our buildable land inventory as to what that development capacity is going to be over the next 20 years. So can the state reviewers that look at our plan determine
 in light of the current position of the golf course, could they conclude that this is not a bona fide designation? I would look to Catherine Beaumont there, but I would say that they could conclude that, but the first place they're going to look to is what your decision was when you looked at all of the evidence before you and give deference to the local decision on what was a reasonable assumption
 for the likelihood of redevelopment of that property over the next 20 years. There's also a slightly higher bar if we were counting this as short-term immediate land supply. The land supply is divided up into long-term and short-term, short-term being, I believe, five years versus the 20 years. And if we were asserting this in our five-year supply, there'd be a little bit more of a test. But 20 years is a long time to judge what the property owner might do. And don't we also have, in essence, a brownfield conversion rate that
 Yes. It could be adjusted up or down, as the market shows us. But, I mean, that could be the, you know, I don't know if this is politically correct, but this could be our fudge factor is to adjust the brownfield conversion rate. We'll have to strike that from the record. Well, no, there's variability across those assumptions. We think that we can stand behind them, but exactly how this is going to play out could be different, and we just need a sort of a safety buffer in our estimation of it.
 All right. Other questions before we go? Could you just put the map up, please, again? And those two on Riverside, there seems to be two parcels there. What's – Yeah, so when we looked at the Riverside parcel, we actually split the golf course into two pieces. One, to the west, there is a –
 water slough there to the west and a bunch of existing environmental zone overlay zones that cover the western portion of the property. And the proposal, the PSC recommendation, was to leave that in open space and that only the eastern portion of the Riverside Golf Course that fronts onto Northeast 33rd Avenue, that that chunk of land would be –
 have the industrial comp plan designation. There isn't actually a lot line there? Correct. It's a land use designation based on our assessment of E-zones and its appropriateness as open space. It's the same kind of judgment. It's not shown on this particular map, but we did have a portion right abroad more that was available for redevelopment. Right. The frontage on Columbia Boulevard. So could that potentially be
 three to five acres that was fronting on a road that could be designated industrial so that our numbers balance but leaving the vast majority of the golf club in open space
 Well, I'm not sure what that accomplishes other than math. I mean, the math matters, but so, you know, in each of these cases, we have to weigh what we think makes good planning sense, what we've heard in testimony, and what the property owner wants. All three count. Obviously, in Broadmoor's case, the property owner made a request, and we denied it. We're not going to do that. In this case, the property owner requested that the site be left in open space designation. Mm-hmm.
 and that they don't intend to redevelop it. Well, if we could decide contrary-wise, we're basically saying at some point in the future, your property is eligible for industrial development. How much of it ends up actually getting industrially developed could be the result of e-zoning. It could also be the result of the kind of project proposal that the Trust for Public Lands put together with Colwood, right?
 So that was kind of a wonderful example of how it could work, right? We've got a lot of resource land protected, got a park, got a bunch of industrial property. Oh, by the way, we're putting a post office there. Everybody wins, or at least most people win. So I don't know. I don't want to prejudge exactly what portion of this property ends up being developed as industrial if we leave it in the sanctuary. I'm just looking at your handy-dandy Google, whatever it is, the topography.
 The top piece that's kind of sticking up above the rest looks to me like it's not developed as golf course, that it could perhaps be a lovely three-acre industrial parcel that would be developable in active use. It's actually beyond the parcel boundary. I think you're talking about this?
 That's outside of the parcel boundary is the golf course itself. Well, too bad. That was a good idea, but they won't want to. Got to get them to put those lines on. That's what we've been doing for the last few years. Yeah. Right there. Done that. I would also remind you that at the moment we're not proposing to rezone these sites. This is a comp plan designation. So there could be a second look at this upon the rezone request if it were appealed to you.
 Mayor, I move the question. Okay, let's take a vote unless there's any other questions. Okay, roll call, please. Yes. No. So, it's me. Well, I'm going to support this amendment. I do believe we should lift the industrial sanctuary designation from this property. It's been requested by the Riverside Golf Course, which has been here for over 100 years. They have no intention of going away. And if nothing else, the person who cuts my hair is a member of the Riverside Golf Course and
 If you don't want me to show up here on Monday with a bad haircut, I need to vote yes. That's full disclosure. That's one of the more unusual conflicts of interest I've heard. No big. It's a really tough choice, but between seeing Dan Holtzman with a bad haircut and having an adequate industrial land inventory, I regretfully end with a bit of one-spot no. Fritz. Yes.
 I think this is the right – we should be honest and figure out how we're going to do things, and if that means changing our economic forecast, then that's what we should do. So I vote yes. Hales. Although I respect the property owner's interest and concern, I think we do need to maintain an adequate industrial land inventory, so I'm going to vote. So that amendment fails. All right. Thanks.
 Let's move on to number S9, 122nd Avenue. I'll move the map amendment S9. Is there a second? Second. Okay, so you want to discuss this one for a minute? Yeah, let's discuss this for a sec because I would benefit, since I wasn't here last time, for having at least the benefit of Commissioner Salson's view.
 so dan uh sure i i very strongly believe that this site is appropriate for mixed-use employment and residential and not just employment which is the proposed psc designation i don't regard this as abutting the columbia corridor even though even though it's described that way it feels very far away i think we're all familiar with the site it's right across from park rose high school in essence
 And this just seems like a great place for mixed-use employment and residential. And, in fact, there is a company that wants to come in and do exactly that. And I think the plans they've shown us are very attractive. And I think this is just spot-on right for Park Roads. Who's the current owner of this dirt? Not sure I know that. Have they weighed in? Yes, they have weighed in and requested. They're supporting the amendment. Okay.
 Supporting Commissioner Saltzman's position. Yeah, I believe the amendment was in response to their testimony. Yes, exactly. I know that BPS has determined it's well-suited for employment land, and obviously job creation in East Portland is a priority, but do you have a principled objection to Commissioner Saltzman's amendment? I think the concerns we had are a couple. One is the industrial land equation. The second was the...
 this is right next to Sandy Boulevard and is close to the airport way district essentially and our concern is that if it is available for housing the market will probably produce housing there rather than making it available for the more employment and we looked at
 a concern about the lack of high-wage jobs in East Portland and prioritize that over the need for housing at this particular location. On the Rossi Farm site, we're making the other determination and saying that that, because of its direct proximity to the high school, may make sense to do the mixed-use residential development.
 Just as a reminder, we did vote on that last time to make both the Rossi Farms and the post office site mixed use. So there's a lot that actually is right next to Park Rose High School. This property being further down on 122nd, it seems to me, and we heard from the Argy Terrace Neighborhood Association, that they are concerned about not only jobs and well-paying jobs in the neighborhood, but also the mix of housing.
 Income levels for the two elementary schools in the neighborhood that are struggling with the number of apartments and low-income families which are welcomed in the neighborhood, they just want to make sure that there's a balance of jobs, single-family homes, and mixed-use.
 I think there's a chance here with everything that can happen in the Park Rose area with the Rossi property and the school district's property and this property and the post office site across it. There's a chance to create a better neighborhood center, which everyone hopes for and has in mind here. And certainly the plans for the Rossi property are the –
 key to that, but not the only part of that. And so I think to change this parcel from employment to mixed use really dilutes the opportunity to create that strong center.
 here. And I think more large apartment complexes along Sandy doesn't necessarily get us the community design that we want. I understand every property owner wants flexibility, and we give some deference to that in this process. But this is a gigantic site that developed wrong will really erode that
 and develop right in terms of employment could really give a lot of people that are gonna now live here a place to work so I don't support this I think my colleagues for the discussion I'm prepared to vote okay let's take a vote
 I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman's concerns, and I think they're well stated, but I'm going to stick with BPS on this one and the mayor's view of how the various sites all interact. So I respectfully vote no. Saltzman. Well, I vote yes. Novick. I also am going to stick with the staff recommendation on this one. No. Fritz. No. Hales. No. Okay, the amendment fails. All right, let's move on to number 38, right? Okay.
 M47. This is one that you started talking about last time and I think you got close but wanted to hold over for to think about it. Right, right, right. We've got multiple possible motions down here at the bottom of the page. I'm trying to work my way back through that as well. The issue here was there was an original request regarding a portion of this site being zoned multifamily
 along Northwest Wilson, right? That's the black box on the... There we go. And then the question is, what about the balance? That's one question. And the other question is, what about the balance of the site, right? Right. The first motion is if you want just the Wilson...
 I lost my cursor again. We want just the black box to be R2. Motion B was a variation on that, which would make it R1, which was the original property owner's request, I believe. Motion C is the whole picture where you do both
 and you not only go with R1 on the Wilson side, but you go with EX for the balance on the red box, a no vote would be essentially retaining the Planning Commission's recommendation, which would leave mixed employment in the red box and the black box. Mayor, can I make a suggestion? Sure. I'm prepared to second motion C, and that might expedite things to see if we have a third motion.
 and could you explain again what c is commissioner novick is the author so yes and confident that i have a second i move motion c which is modified mapping them number n47 is noted in my memo dated april 12th that would designate 2135 northwest 29th avenue is multi-dwelling 1000 and designate the other parcels noted as ex central employment i'll second that for discussion and steve can you then explain
 Yes. I wanted to note that since our last meeting, I took some time to visit the site and was struck by how dramatically underutilized this area is. To quote Gertrude Stein, there's no there there. It's been zoned for employment uses for decades, but has not produced many jobs. This amendment creates an opportunity for more flexible uses that will better serve the surrounding residential neighborhood as well as improve the street network within this area.
 The potential developer has worked closely with Northwest District Association, which supports the changes in the amendments. We've also heard directly from individual neighbors in support of the amendment.
 I do understand the concerns the Mayor raised last time about allowing residential uses in what has traditionally been a buffer between the residential and industrial areas, but I've also been impressed by the potential developers' willingness to address concerns about new residential uses close to the industrial sanctuary to the north of Nikolai by ensuring that future residents are aware of nearby industrial uses before they decide to live there. Thank you.
 Could you put the map back up, please? Yeah, the map back up. So this is, as I understand Motion C, it's two changes, right? We're going to multi-pewelling 1,000 instead of 2,000 on the black bounded parcel, right? And we're going to EX on the red parcel, right? Correct. And R1 is the designation to the south across the street.
 Yeah, so I guess I was interested in this idea, but I'm not sure if it isn't going too far, Steve. That is, my theory about this from the beginning when the property owner first started presenting this idea is, okay, we've got townhouse-style development on one side of the street. If you zone that black box area as R2, you get similar development. You get a similar scale of development facing the neighborhood on Wilson.
 Then the question is, well, okay, maybe that's a good idea. What do you do with the rest of the parcel? And then that's the second half, if you remember, going to EX. Just give us a quick recap of the difference of the kind of development we could get in EX there versus what was the other designation? EG. EG. EG.
 So going forward, the difference between the EX and EG would basically be the ability to put residential in there. So the other commercial industrial stuff is allowed in both cases? Yeah, the EG zone, you can do quite a bit of office development as well as a little bit of retail, 20,000 square feet of retail. Yeah.
 up to 60,000 with a conditional use. So you can get that mix of intensive employment uses. You just can't get the residential with the EG mixed employment designation. And as we discussed last time, the concern is with Guilts Lake Industrial Sanctuary being across the road on Nikolai, how do we –
 Is it wise to allow fairly intense residential development right across the street from the industrial sanctuary? And while, yes, you might tell people that there's going to be challenges, I think the people who moved into the parole knew that there were going to be not train noises, and that's still something that...
 they'd like to change and such. So I'd like to actually split these two into two different amendments because I can support the R1 on the black box. I don't support the EX on the red box simply because I don't think that's appropriate to put across the street from the industrial area. Mayor, I would move motion C. Let's test it. We have a question.
 All right, let's touch Motion C as a package, and then if we need to unbundle it, we can. So I'm now persuaded on Motion C. I'm going to oppose it, but I'm interested in unbundling it. So anyone else want to speak before we do that? All right, let's take a vote then on Motion C as offered, and then we'll see if that passes or doesn't pass. Which is both the R1 and the EX. Yeah, R1 on the Wilson parcel and EX on the remainder.
 This? I'm going to support this motion, and I'm also intrigued by the opportunity to do some live work and some maker space and proximity on this site. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 I think it's really important to note that this has been a place where nothing has happened for decades, and the fact that we have an opportunity to have some loop work and maker space here is something I don't think that we should let slip. I think that this area will continue to be underutilized unless we make this change. Aye. Aye.
 But possibly the reason that how much has happened is because many people don't want to be right next to the industrial area. No. Hales. I'm going to vote no and hope you're right. I'm afraid that what we won't get is makerspace. But it is a question mark, and we'll see. It will be a little bit of an experiment. So I vote no, but the motion passes. So motion C has passed. And both of those changes that are made are one on the –
 Wilson-Farsell and EX and the rest. Okay, let's move on to 39. And just a question, because we're going to have a number more of these amendments. Does the change from EG to EX make any difference in our industrial land inventory or employment numbers? Yes, but in this case, the impact you just made was just an acre or two, and because of your previous votes, you still have a surplus.
 In that category of land. So as we're going through all of these amendments, if you could call out to us, what does this do to the industrial and employment lands inventory, that would be helpful.
 And that was actually the last one that has an effect. So you're actually done with the employment land discussion. We're shifting to mixed-use considerations. And overall, with respect to employment land, we're in good shape. You've got it to balance. We're a little more marginal on industrial land per se, but true employment land of one kind or another, we're generously supplied. So.
 So given the votes you've all made, where you stand now is you still have a minor deficit in the properties with direct access to the river, but you have enough of a surplus in the others that you're on reasonable ground. Yeah. Okay. Okay, now we're at – Excuse me, Mayor. Mayor, I think you're using the wrong numbers. Okay.
 Oops. We're on 40 now. I think the reason is because there was a numbering error in the original one we passed out, and the versions we passed out today corrected that. All right. I'll go to the new version. Sorry. So just add one to all the numbers on your old version. I'll actually use the new version, and I'll go back. So what happened to the 39 in the old version? You just voted on it. Yeah. There was one without a number at all, and that's why. The 39 in my version is Belmont, or Buckman.
 And what we just voted on is 39 before because the earlier one had no number, so we had skipped a number. So let's get to the same program here, which is revised 51116. That's the packet that we have. Just go with the number. It's N15, right? N15 and S20. Okay.
 I'll refer to those as we go along too. We paired these because they both involve questions of mixed use in a fairly small section of southeast Belmont between Belmont and Morrison, so we thought we should consider them as a group. Could you bring me up to date on whatever conversations people have had about this before we look at the options before us?
 Sure. The 822 Southeast 15th is a property that is – and I'll skip ahead to that one –
 is this property here. It's a corner property with three historic Victorian homes on it. It's currently zoned R1, and the property owner has requested mixed use, and the motivation for the request is to take advantage of the potential historic transfer of development rights code provisions in the proposed mixed use code.
 Um, the neighborhood has opposed this request and I think it's partly just an issue of trust as to, um, while they may trust the particular property owner involved, no one knows whether a property might change hands. And there's, there's a fear of if the property did change hands that, um, the homes would be torn down and mixed use would be built there. Okay. So this is something I'm going to want you to flag, not just today, but as we're going forward. Um,
 because we're going to deal with Eastmoreland today. I don't think we're dealing with Euclid Heights today. But there are places in this plan where there's existing historic building stock. And the question that I want to keep raising in each case is, are we either creating or maintaining a zoning incentive –
 I mean, there are financial incentives, but a zoning incentive to tear down the building that's there and build something else. I want to know that in each case because I don't think we should create or maintain a zoning incentive. So, again, and there are places within that universe of properties like the Kings Hill houses or Euclid Heights or Eastmoreland where people could create –
 and maybe in some cases will create a historic district, that's a good idea. That will provide enhanced protection as well. But that's not what we're talking about today, and that's a separate process. The question that I want to focus on in this process is, are we creating a zoning incentive for tearing down historic buildings? Now, if the transfer of development rights was mandatory –
 that okay we'll give you you know we'll give you that zoning designation but you must preserve those old victorians i'd have a different attitude but again in each case we should listen to what a property owner says their plans are and their assurances about what they will do and not do of course i wouldn't build big box retail on my five acres once you give me the zoning for it you give me permission to do so um yeah
 we should listen to what the property owner's plans and assurances are. But, again, I don't want to – I want to err on the side of preservation and not on reliance on the property owner's assurances or the property owner's assurances that –
 Of course I wouldn't tear those buildings down, or of course I wouldn't build that big box retail. So I want to step through these amendments and Buckman and also the others like them and make sure I'm hearing clearly, and I've had some conversations with the staff about this, but I think we need to have them more here with the whole council. What are we doing with respect to creating, removing, or leaving unchanged a zoning plan
 incentive to tear down old structures that aren't necessarily protected by historic history or designations. I share that concern, Mayor, and as you said, it applies to some other places, potentially Elliott's and some of the neighbors near Buckman. A couple of months ago, we had a discussion, I think in Council as well as the Mayor and I with Planning Staff about what if we just
 have a planned district, what if we don't change any of the zoning in a designated area and take a more careful approach on this? Whatever happened to that? And in particular, how do we
 maintain a mosaic of different zoning designations and not feel like we have to zone an entire block or an entire neighborhood this, that, or the other? That question is coming up in a couple slides with a subsequent amendment that relates to the residential portion of Buckman. Okay.
 We found another approach to accomplish that, but it's in an area that is more mosaic than this particular case. In this case, it's really more akin to what the mayor is talking about, I believe, in terms of increased development potential and no necessary guarantees what the outcome will be. So we are going to talk about that in a few minutes, but we had broken out this one as a slightly separate issue.
 So this is R1 now, and the request from the property owner was to make it mixed-use urban center. That's a really intense designation. Our zone. So I'll make the motion. I don't plan to vote for it, but I'll get it in play. So I'll move to adopt it. Mayor, can I? Sure. Before we do that, again, I'm playing catch-up on this one. It's an important set of policy questions. Does anyone feel strongly about – we have two motions –
 we could make. Does anyone feel strongly that you're going to vote no on which motion, mayor? I'm going to vote motion from vote no on N 15. And I might vote no on the other one as well, but does anyone feel strongly the other way?
 Yes. I'm a yes on N15 and a no on S20. And Commissioner Novick, could you just explain why you have a different view of the matter? So to reiterate a bit what Eric said, I introduced this amendment because a property owner requested to extend the excuse designation to the property, which includes four homes and a single tax lot. The four homes are listed on the historic register, so they can't be torn down unless they fall into disrepair and a request for delisting is granted. Okay.
 and the property owner wants to take advantage of a feature of the mixed use zone that will allow him to transfer floor area ratio elsewhere in the city and his plan is to use funds from that transfer to reinvest in the houses making much needed repairs although there aren't guarantees of preservation with this designation change as bbs notes i think the property owner's idea is a good one that we should support given that the
 buildings are protected structures, it's difficult in any case to demolish them. I had forgotten that. There's another way to accomplish that. We could have a new rule that says if you've got a property with this kind of
 even if it's not actually historic, or in this case it is historic, that we could change the rules on when you can transfer the FAR. Michael Nouri- Yeah, you could ask us to look at, through the multi-dwelling zone update, whether the transfer that's available to the proposed mixed use zone should be considered there too.
 Okay, and I had forgotten that these were already designated landmarks in this case. So I'll make the motion. I might change it. I'm going to vote on it. Second. All right, so the motion is to adopt this amendment in this case, which would designate this site as a mixed-use urban center and set up the scenario that Commissioner Novick just described. Are there further discussion or questions before we vote? We're just voting on that one. Just that one. Okay, let's take a vote, please.
 yes good discussion hi hi hi putting an urban center designation on a property that's essentially in the neighborhood doesn't make any sense to me no ales yeah uh it's a close call because again the protection that i'm focused on has been assured by um
 by the historic designation, but the pattern still wouldn't make any sense. Yeah, so I'll vote no, but it does pass. You can take, a property owner can take off the historic designation, surely. Thank you.
 Yeah, that's one of the problems throughout the plan is that all the property owner has to do. Would anybody like to move to reconsider? It's as strong as we get that protection, but it's a property owner consent. You can remove it from the register. I'll move to reconsider. All right. Thank you. So we vote on the motion to reconsider. We need a second. A second on the motion? No, I don't think I can second a motion to reconsider because I didn't prevail, but somebody else –
 I'll second for purpose of discussion. Thank you. So let's take a vote to reconsider, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? No. This is just to talk about it again. Yeah, I don't want to talk about it anymore.
 Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, so we're going to reconsider the vote. I had forgotten that as well. So, sorry, getting fuzzy on some of the particulars here this afternoon. But that's right, because we've got that problem with our historic designation process, which is that the property owner can, with no community involvement or city regulatory power,
 Take the designation off right so again We're relying on a property owners assurance that of course I'm not going to tear down these historic buildings It's your concern they get into they can get their cake and eat it too. Yes. Yeah, yeah, so we give it Density designation and hope that the assurances are true until we change the rate here comes our historic planner Maybe Brandon's got it. Yeah, help us out here with some light. Yeah, I
 So Brandon Spencer-Hartle, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm not familiar with the specific properties in question. If they are on the National Register of Historic Places, which I believe they are, and maybe Eric has knowledge of that, if they're on the National Register of Historic Places and a property owner is seeking demolition, they have two options to take. One is to seek removal of that designation, which does require a state review for properties on the National Register.
 because that is a higher-level designation than our local designation. So the National Register is a process for delisting, but if a National Register property owner is not successful in delisting their National Register designation, they would come before this body with a Type 4 demolition review. And you may remember in 2015, you considered one of those Type 4 demolition reviews for the Buck Prager building in northwest Portland. Right.
 What Commissioner Fritz is talking about are some of our local historic resources that do allow an owner to remove that designation with a simple request to Bureau of Development Services. Thank you. So which one is this? We believe it's national. Deborah, do you have the answer? The staff is nodding yes. It's national. All right. So it is national. It's very much like the Buckbury.
 Right. And right now in the code, the process for which they would gain approval for a Type 4 demolition review would be to demonstrate to this council that the property either the owner is suffering economic hardship and would need to demolish the resources, or the proposed replacement project better meets the goals of the comprehensive plan. And they would have to make that case after they had transferred the FAR and reaped the benefit of that? Yes.
 Yeah, so let's talk about that. So, again, we've got the are we protecting the buildings question. That's one question. I think I've got more clarity about that now. Then the does this pattern make any sense question. And then there's a third question, which is, well, what's the economic use of this property if we do nothing and leave it as R1, right? Yeah.
 I assume they're either owned or rented by people who are living in them. They're rental homes right now. Well, this isn't a bad rental market, and that's not a bad location to have a rental property, right? So it's not like the owner can't earn a reasonable return from the property. In terms of the land use pattern, it is a budding on two sides urban center designation. That's the –
 That's the mixed-use designation that's given to pretty much all of the mixed-use designations within about 20 or 30 blocks of the central city. I'm sorry. I'm not seeing that at all in this map. It looks to me like it's M15. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. Two sides. All right. On two sides, it would be mixed-use urban center. But essentially, though, this is saying that these buildings are not going to get knocked down, and do we want to give a bonus to the owner? Right. Okay.
 You could use them as commercial buildings if you, you know, like you see on some commercial streets with historic homes turned into boutiques or something. What was the PSC recommendation on this? They said no to this and left it as R1. If the property owner is not intending to demolish, and to use Commissioner Fritz's word, we give them a bonus, the opportunity to transfer the FAR and to then monetize whatever their proceeds are.
 Why do we care about that, in one way or another? Right. What's the public interest in that? I understand there's an additional cost of maintaining a historic structure, and these are Victorian and we want them to be maintained to certain standards. So that seems to me to weigh in favor of giving them a break. But what's the counterargument? The counterargument is most – Assuming there's no risk to demolition.
 Assuming there's no risk of demolition, there is no counterargument. I think the concern of the neighborhood was that there would still be a risk of demolition. But I think the factor that it is on the National Register is a mitigating factor. This is to me we should be making a policy about what bonuses we're going to give to National Historic Register properties rather than this one happens to be in this particular location, so let's change the zoning even though we're not actually – and just give this particular property owner a transfer bonus. Yes.
 Well, fair enough. But, I mean, this has been a long and complex process. Anyone has the right to come forward with a claim. And we may or may not get to that point. I'm just trying to find out, now that we're pretty confident that we're not creating, there's not some loophole here where it can be demolished and the person also gets the benefit of the transfer, it seems to me to be a closer call. And I haven't heard a compelling argument as to why it's against the public interest to do this. To give the owner a bonus. Yeah.
 What's the argument to give the – what's the public interest to give the – I think it's closer to, I would say, a wash. But, I mean, these are historic structures. There's a cost of maintaining them. They're in a national registry. And the person has a certain – has accepted a certain limitation on their ability to develop the site. They've got the cost of maintaining historic properties. If this creates some economic benefit that's used to maintain these or other properties, why?
 why would we care wouldn't we why wouldn't we do that citywide rather than just on this property that's not before us well the whole yes it is the whole comprehensive plan is before us but we don't we're not that's not what's before us we don't have the citywide making that request this is one historic site which which has which is contextual
 I'm just trying to find out why I should vote against it, and I haven't heard a compelling argument yet. If you wanted to implement Commissioner Fritz's sentiment, I think what you would say is vote no, but then direct us to come up with a citywide code change that gets equivalent incentives into the multifamily zone so that there's not this choice. Yeah, because I guess my public purpose, Commissioner Fischer, in advocating for that approach is –
 the savvy folks who've been engaged in this process came in with the request, there may be other properties in a similar situation with the historic designation that didn't know that this was the time to come in and ask for that. So to me...
 to me be much fairer and more equitable if it's a citywide policy rather than yeah, you got your request in so we're going to grant it. I have one last question because I just if we did something by way of a citywide policy and we direct you to do that, which I know you love it when we direct you to do all kinds of things, but if we direct you to do that
 Do we have the power in whatever we craft to say we will consider giving you this benefit, but you have to give us even a higher level of assurance that you're not going to remove the designation or demolish? We do ask for a covenant with those kinds of transfers. So we would have an additional insurance policy, in effect.
 Yeah, and we could also, Commissioner, talk about what we're going to give you this additional economic benefit. What are we going to get for that? We had talked about height bonuses in some instances going for affordable housing. If we don't just give this away now but make it a package, we could look at the whole public benefit to giving a bonus. And what happens, Commissioner Fritz, if a year from now,
 a new council hasn't been able to agree on that approach do we do we does this uh applicant have an opportunity to come back and be re-heard on this question
 The comp plan isn't static, so there's nothing preventing an applicant from individually asking for an amendment outside of the, you know, the big overhaul process that we're doing. They would just be assuming the cost of that change, because unless it's part of an area plan, it's up to the individual. Joe, do you feel strongly one way or another on this? You know, I'm just thinking, I'm trying to parse it. The idea of the transfer that could be available here really only happens if we stay
 stay the course of where we are with our mixed-use zoning code to implement the central city or to implement these types of centers in the new code. We're looking at allowing historic transfers, correct? That's that's the distinction. So it gets a little speculative because of that because now we're needing to re sort of
 or rethink exactly what that bonus system is going to be like because we are counting on being in an inclusionary housing system as well. So some of the assumptions that we were carrying into this discussion about what the bonuses and transfers would be like in the mixed-use centers are just uncertain. It's not that they won't happen, but they could. So we could make this change. It could change.
 turn out that the transfer permission to transfer development potential from a property like this doesn't make it into the code for a variety of good reasons, not against historic, but for other reasons, then you've made a change to a new designation for a purpose that
 that couldn't be delivered. So the one thing to be grounded in is that if you want to change to that designation, it's the right designation no matter what happens with these properties. That would be – You mean with the buildings? Yeah, the buildings. Sorry. Excuse me. Yes. That's your foundation piece. Where do you come out on that? Yeah.
 It's proximate. If I was just looking at the pattern and not the buildings, since the buildings have protection under their national status, I thought they were Oregon status, proximity-wise it's in a center kind of location, correct? Yes.
 I mean, it's in a strip contiguous with other commercials. Yeah, we've made this kind of addition in lots of other parts of the city because it's all contiguous. They just didn't have these particular houses and their value on them. They're at those assets. They're protected through our national register. They may or may not really qualify for a transfer, depending on how that law turns out. Right.
 the change doesn't necessarily put them at – it increases potentially the amount that could be developed on the site that could create an incentive for someone to come in and go through the process of demolishing. It's our highest level protection, though, that they have against that demolition. Okay, well, I don't want to –
 Spent too much more time on this because I think we may be ready to act abated Well, it's really important and it's really important actually I respect these folks very much at the playing bureau But actually there's a little bit of a philosophical difference here between our staff and the Commissioner in charge. That's okay You know your professionals. We all work together. My I have a really strong bias on this stuff, which is it's the Hippocratic oath Don't screw it up. Don't lose the old buildings and
 and they look at the map and the land use as planners because that's what we want them to do, right? And so I am less capable of looking at a site like this
 and separating the site from the buildings that are on it than they are. And so I gravitate towards trying to give it as much protection as possible until the rest of the regulatory framework is in place. Okay. So in that case, I'm going to vote to maintain the R1 here. Okay. And not make the change. But I understand. I move the question, Mayor. Okay. Let's take a vote. Okay. So we are voting again on N15.
 This has been a good discussion. I'm going to put in for college credit. And I've listened carefully to the debate, and it has changed my mind. I vote no. Fultzman? I'm going to vote yes. I still think that we should do this. I think that there's always a risk that the properties will fall into disrepair, and the owner will ask to have them delisted. And we've got an owner here who wants to use the FRR bonus money in order to further invest in the properties.
 I very much appreciate the willingness to reconsider, and I think this was one of the most important discussions that we're going to have as part of this whole process as to how do we reach multiple goals. I want to be able to do that on multiple properties citywide, and I don't want to give things away before we've figured out what do we get for it. So I vote no.
 Yeah, I appreciate your discussion as well. It also helped re-clarify how I'm going to proceed on some of these that are closer calls because of the historic designation here. But we have system-wide work to do. We need more historic districts. We need to give people the ability to transfer density and otherwise obtain benefits to give them even stronger incentives to keep the great old buildings they have. But that needs to be systemic rather than episodic on individual property, so I vote no. Okay, S-20. Okay.
 So S-20, as this slide shows, is a collection of properties just a block up the hill or a couple blocks up the hill. And this is kind of flipping the facts of the last one on their head. These are properties that the Planning Commission had changed to mixed use because they're predominantly built with commercial development on them.
 They had been zoned a combination of R2 and R2.5, and the Planning Commission, again, changed that to mixed use. The buildings in question are in these slides here. There's a CenturyLink building, Nemo and Sons, another CenturyLink building.
 a couple other properties at 16th. For the most part, these are commercial properties. They're on a major transit route. Staff didn't think that it was appropriate to have such a low-density residential zone on these commercial properties, and the Planning Commission agreed. So the staff recommendation was to not support this amendment. What designation of mixed use is?
 Recommended by the Planning Commission. This is Urban Centre, consistent with all the other commercial designations on this street? Yes.
 And is the concern of the neighborhood that that would be too intense if they were redeveloped? Well, there's a second tier of the discussion, which is what is the zoning. The urban center allows a choice of small, medium, and large zones. So you can make that choice at the zoning level. In this case, this is still zoned neighborhood commercial. It would be the middle zone of density on the zoning map. Okay.
 It would be Carter designation rather than...
 Well, the way that the urban center designation works is it allows the full range of density. It's the designation that we applied to the inner ring, close-in neighborhoods, and the town centers. The current zoning is CS in this vicinity with a little bit of, as you go down the hill into the centrally site, it gets denser. But right now the zoning map proposes the CM2 in this area. Okay.
 And is there a way to make sure that we get CM2 rather than anything more intense? You can direct us directly
 That's what we've already done on the proposed map, and you can certainly communicate that to the Planning Commission. And you'll see the map in the fall when you adopt the map, so you can review that then. I do want to make clear, though, that the Urban Center does allow one to ask for an up zone. So there's no absolute guarantee that no one in the future would never be able to get that.
 CM3 here. That's not a zone change in conformance with the comp plan, right? That is, yeah, because the urban center allows the full range of density. That's simply a ministerial action. That's a ministerial action. It still is a review and is a type 3 review. What's the lower designation that would allow the current kinds of CS zoning and not allow the very high intensity?
 The zoning is the CM2 that would allow what's – On the comp plan. Yeah, that's it, right? I'm sorry, I'm not – CM2 is the zoning designation that is the medium scale. Right, but what's – this is – you said this is urban center? Yeah. Is there another designation that would only allow –
 the one and two rather than allowing the three later? The neighborhood center designation, but I want to just say that the entire comp plan policy is structured to not support putting that designation so close to the central city.
 The urban design framework and the centers and corridors strategy says basically that we put urban center close to the central city and in the town centers. So you would have to unravel quite a bit more of the comp plan policy structure to make that designation. So you recommend a no vote on Motion B? Yes. And the Buckman Neighborhood Association is supporting Motion B? Yes. Okay.
 Well, the people from Buckman have written in. Residents of the neighborhood, yeah. Yeah, so I think the reason there's some discomfort here in my mind and maybe in others is that going to the full central city intensity here seems like it may be going too far. But going to R2.5 on a main street like Belmont makes no sense. Right.
 So I think what Commissioner Fritz and I are grouping for is how do you peg this at a reasonable level of density for redevelopment? Because these buildings are likely to redevelop if we give, you know, say the opportunity to build a three- or four-story mixed-use building on the site of a 1950s office building. Right.
 You know, that's the outcome we're seeking. What we're not seeking is a 10-story apartment building. Well, to be clear, the mixed use, the urban center designation doesn't get you to 10 stories. It gets you to six or seven with bonuses at the most. That would be a lot. That would be too much for this neighborhood. So, again, there's a fabric on Belmont that's good. It can get better with redevelopment if there are –
 buildings not particularly worthy of preservation that aren't particularly dense, some of this qualifies, or parking lots, which some of this is, we want to see mixed-use three- and four-story development in a place like this, right? So I guess I want to just back up a little bit that,
 Again, that the zoning is what's going to control the scale of the building, not the comp plan designation. No, if we have a comp plan designation of urban center, it can eventually go up to the center. The property owner can walk into the permit counter and get a zone change in conformance with the comp plan. It'll still be a relationship. It'll have to go through a land review. Oh, there's a public hearing process. It would come to us. Yeah, it would likely come to you on appeal.
 Not necessarily the environment we want to set up. How can you help us out here if we don't want this intensive development? Well, I want to back up to the structure of the comp plan, which is if you're saying urban center is not appropriate in this location, about half of the urban center designations in the city are in similar kind of context. So you're making a pretty broad statement about the applicability of the comp plan designation if that's where you're going.
 Well, I think what we're saying is that it shouldn't just be a circle of a certain amount radius around a point. It should be you look at each neighborhood. This is very proximal to the city center. It's also the Buckman neighborhood.
 So it's not appropriate for central city type development. I just want to, so my name is Marty Stockton. I'm the city planner in the Southeast District Liaison. But on April 28th, there was a vote to extend the mixed-use urban center designation all the way to 49th on Belmont and all the way to 51st on Division. A vote by whom? By the city council. We did that? You did that. Help us out. Okay.
 But that's along a corridor. This is Belmont. This is a corridor. Yeah. Yeah? Mm-hmm. So from the neighborhood, which has a different feel from 49th and Belmont. So from 12th Avenue to 49th on Belmont, right now the proposal is mixed-use urban center. And with the recent change from 42nd to 49th that was voted on April 28th by city council.
 This is why we didn't make final decisions. One thing that I'd like to just jump in here is that staff's recommendation is really to acknowledge the non-conforming uses that are on Belmont.
 The conversation about intensity is really best saved for the zoning map. So if there is a sense on intensity and scale, then we can have that conversation on the zoning map. And I think we should. And that's why, again, there's got to be a path here that isn't, frankly, I remember that vote about the corridors. Now I remember it.
 We want to designate those corridors and centers for mixed-use redevelopment. But I don't think we want to leave it to the property owners to determine the level of intensity. I think we want to map that. Okay.
 And that's what I thought the three flavors of mixed use were going to get us. At the zoning scale, they do get you there. The other thing maybe that's missing from this conversation is that it's not entirely the property owner's whim. There are purpose statements to each of these zones. And so you can't necessarily just plop down the CM3, the most intense, intentionally.
 In all context, the purpose statement says it's supposed to be in areas that are generally not abutting single family, generally near multifamily areas near the central city or in town centers. So there is some code and policy that governs where those zoning designations go.
 should someone apply for a zone change. Yeah, the zone change in compliance with the comp plan, though, it's pretty minimal, at least currently. If it's going to be more, that'll be great. That's what we're proposing is that there's an urban design element to where the zones go, and so there's additional criteria. When is the zoning map and those changes going to come to council? Well, they're going through the Planning and Sustainability Commission right now, actually, or the new mixed-use zoning code. So are we guaranteed they'll be done before the end of the year? Yeah.
 Through council? They are supposed to be done by December, yes. Okay.
 We've reserved space on your calendar for that. If you want to know, last night we had, gosh, a four-hour hearing on it, and this was a big part of the debate. And it was going in the opposite direction, though, because we've made a move to put lower commercial zoning on some parts of centers, and there was this community push and property owner push, to be fair, against that. So it's going to be a debate all the way to the end.
 And just one other thing, the way that we have structured the mixed-use urban center designation is that that is the designation that would be proposed with the design overlay. So other areas, so the mixed-use neighborhood and the mixed-use dispersed would not have the design overlay. So that is something that we have heard from the southeast community that is important to them. Would not? I'm sorry.
 So the mixed-use urban center would get the expansion of the design overlay. The other designations would not. I get it. Okay. So I think I'm ready. I know some others of the council are probably ready to vote on this. I think I am, too. I'm going to not support the amendment to downzone this to R2.5, but I want to return to the
 zoning map questions with an even greater level of rigor because I think, again, we're not going to make everybody happy here, but there's a level of intensity and a level of design that can make redevelopment of these kinds of parcels work. But there's also if you're hearing on the council a sense of
 how much scale is appropriate and how much is too much. But clearly R2.5 isn't the right place to peg this. Yeah. So everybody ready to vote? I move the motion, Mayor. Let's take a vote, please. So voting aye means to change to R2.5 and R1. Fish? No. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? No. Ritz? Another good discussion. No.
 No. Okay. The amendment fails. All right. Let's move on.
 So now we're moving next door to the residential portion of Buckman, and so this is a slightly different – this comes back to the mosaic question that Commissioner Fritz raised earlier. This is a section of Buckman just to the north of where we were just talking about between Stark and Morrison. It's currently zoned R5 and designated as R5 on the current comp plan. The Planning Commission had recommended changing that to R2.5.
 This is just a closer look at that area, some houses in there. The rationale for the change was that most of the houses in this area are duplexes or triplexes or higher, but
 And so this was an issue of sort of non-conforming density. There's about 140 dwellings in this area subject to this amendment. Thirty-six of them are single-family homes, and only six of those are on lots that are dividable in the R2.5 zone. So it's essentially built to R2.5 density or higher. The average density is actually 25 units to the acre, which is slightly above the R2 density.
 The 60 Lots in the area 33 or less than 2500 square feet and this map kind of illustrates this the to orient you the the blue buildings are multifamily buildings of four more units the orange buildings are duplexes the yellow Lots are Lots smaller than the r5 standard and the green are a
 Essentially, single-family houses on 5,000-square-foot lots, which those are the only lots that really meet the R5 standards in this area. So that's why staff's recommendation was to change this to recognize the existing density. So we have four motions. We're on page 8, and this is probably going a little slower than we hoped. Mayor, can I ask, is there a strong support among two colleagues for any of the motions? These ones are requested by Commissioner Salsman and me.
 Yes, I think there are. Which motion has at least two members of council feeling strongly about? On this particular amendment? On this one, yeah. We have four motions that we could bring or vote them all down. Is there an A, B, C, or D? Oh, I'm sorry. Are there two colleagues who feel strongly about any of these? No.
 I feel strongly about this. Yes. There's some refinements. I want to see if we can identify one that has some support. The one that several of you asked staff to explore was this larger mosaic question about is this really unique or is there a larger area that's got this problem? And so the map I'm putting on the screen is a map of the wider sort of Buckman-Kern sunny side area where there's
 bit of a similar pattern of duplexes and multifamily mixed into some of the r5 areas and the the request which i think is represented by motion d essentially was to
 to hold off on zoning changes here, but direct us to explore either a planned district or an overlay zone as we come forward with the next steps that would apply in a wider area of this that shares similar characteristics but is zoned R5 and where you would...
 In that tailored code, you would do two things. You would essentially better – for lots that are 5,000 square feet, you would maintain that requirement. So that would protect the remaining single-family large lot homes that are there, the older historic homes.
 And then also allow infill up to the R1 level as long as you're not demolishing an older building or if you've got a vacant site. And so that was sort of, I guess, a new flavor of zoning.
 packaged for what we would do is look at a wider area and come back to you with some kind of a code solution at the planned district or overlay level. The map on the screen shows you the study area geography in the Buckman-Kurd-Sunnyside area.
 There's also a similar kind of situation going on in Sullivan's Gulch, Irvington, and parts of Elliott. There's a little bit of a slightly milder form of that going on in south near the Clinton Station area. And so we would look at all those areas and come back with not something that matched those boundaries, but something that was sensible within looking at those different areas. So would we hold off on changing the zoning in all three of those areas? Yes.
 The zoning wasn't proposed to change in those other areas, so you would essentially, Motion D would hold off on changing the zoning
 It would leave R5 in place now, but it would direct us to come back with exploration of this different flavor of zoning for this, what we call the inner ring problem with middle housing and the mosaic of uses. Thank you. So I strongly support Motion D, and I appreciate Commissioner Novick for formulating these three options. And I'll second Motion D. All right. Discussion on D? Are we ready to vote? Let's vote. Let's take a vote.
 Actually, actually after due deliberation, I'm going to oppose my own motion We'll see the rest of us can't help you out go ahead. Let's take a vote So what I was doing with motion D was I
 No, let's see. Wait a minute. Hang on a second. Let me check it. These semaphore signals, yes. AD, the rescue. B. B. That's the B overlay. Yeah. That's your B. It leaves an R5 and then says do the overlay. Okay. Okay. Are you ready, Steve? Yes. I'm a no.
 The argument is that a lot of the houses used to have loan for a very small, and we'd be creating a density bonus that works primarily for conversions, which wouldn't make much sense here. So my understanding is that with this motion, we're not changing any of the zoning. Other way around. So...
 Is that correct? The motion depends on you acting later on the second part. Effectively, what you're doing now is holding off on the comp plan change for this area and asking us to come back to you with zoning later that tries a different approach. But it leaves it at R5, where it's R5 today. So the details of what that zoning does would be subject to another vote later. Yeah. Okay.
 Right, but we'd be directing you to explore new zoning concepts. New zoning concepts that allow this mosaic, that support the buildings that aren't single-family houses, that don't create an incentive, an undue incentive, to convert to single-family houses. And in exploring this, at your all's encouragement, we've come up with this approach and see that actually it could apply to the large parts of this inner ring, so that's why we're enthusiastic about that approach.
 The pro and con that we've heard on this is, you know, the pro is that it helps deal with the issue that raised the objection in Buckman. We have heard some con from some folks who don't think this goes far enough, and they would like it just upzoned sooner. So that's the tradeoff. All right. Steve, are you ready? Thank you.
 You did vote. Yes, I did vote. Are you going to stick with your – Yes. All right. Commissioner Fritz. Well, that's too bad that you voted against him, which I think is brilliant. So, yes. Well, again, I appreciate – I know this is complicated and a little bit frustrating, but there's a body of work here where actually I think there's a great deal of agreement.
 One is we are, in this comp plan, trying out some new planning tools like these mixed-use designations to replace old tools like the storefront commercial zone. And we're trying to figure that out as we go along. Secondly, I hope you're hearing, I think I'm hearing, a very strong agreement on the council about preserving the pattern in places like Buckman that happened before zoning and that zoning alone won't protect. Right.
 We're going to need additional new tools like the process that you're embarking on here, but that we have a very strong bias towards the preservation of existing structures. That does not preclude turning some of those structures into multifamily units that started out as single-family houses.
 Thus, the middle density discussion. I think there's a way all this comes together. But again, I'm going to keep practicing the Hippocratic Oath, try to not screw it up, and make it likely that good old buildings get torn down. Aye. Okay. Motion D is adopted. Thank you.
 You're not quite out of Buckman yet. One more. All right. We like Buckman. Where is this one in relation to the bubble that we just drew? It's adjacent. This is abutting the northeast corner of what you just discussed. Slightly different situation. These are some multifamily projects, one of which is owned by Home Forward. And oops, that's too far. The...
 The distinction here, this is also wrapped up in whether this should be R5. The Planning Commission recommended R1. The home forward property is currently developed at a lower density than R1, and the current R5 designation kind of prevents redevelopment of that site for additional affordable housing units. Mm-hmm.
 So Home Forward requested the change? Supports the change because it would allow more flexibility for feature improvements on the site and potentially additional units or reconfiguration. They support the plan as proposed. They support the PSC recommendation. And the amendment reverses that. Correct. And takes it back to R5. Correct. For just this site. Okay.
 And they're currently developed with multifamily? It is a multifamily. It's a 10-unit multifamily development on a 10,000-square-foot site. So it is R1. Developed as R1. Yeah, okay. Anybody have any further questions about this one? I think this is a little easier. Okay. Roll call, please. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. No. I think this one may have been an error on my part. No. Hales. No. All right. Okay.
 M-42. So there's – why don't you tell us – I'll move the Adopt Math Amendment M-42 as refined by the Mayor's April 28th memo. Is there a second for that? And you recall that the – Okay. Now explain what we're trying to do here now as opposed to what we were considering doing before. Okay.
 You recall the original amendment came out of testimony during your hearings that a property owner requested that you consider additional mixed use on this section of Fremont between Vancouver and Mississippi. And so on the left side of the screen is the original amendment proposal. The proposal generated quite a bit of debate in the Boise neighborhood and some division from different folks. Okay.
 some property owner opposition from some of the affected property owners, and
 The revision to that expressed in the Mayor's memo was to scale it back to a smaller number of properties that the property on the left is owned by an affordable housing provider, and the other properties on the right-hand side are essentially the properties and the other vacant sites associated with the original request.
 So, it's a scaled back version of the initial proposal in recognition that there was quite a bit of opposition to the original proposal. MS. But the ones on the right are vacant? MR. The one on the left side of the right currently has an affordable housing project on it. The ones on the right hand side of the right picture are vacant.
 On the left side here where my cursor is, that would allow if the owner, which is an affordable housing provider, wanted to increase density and build a larger project there, they could. The one on the right is where there's a community garden, but it's privately owned by the person who requested the amendment. All that property on the left is currently R1. In both cases, the properties are either R2 or R2.5. Okay.
 so i think there's potentially a case to be made for the one on the left since it's already at greater than 202.5 is it it's um the ones on the left are are two and um i'm not sure why it says r 2.5 i think they're both r2 they may be changing the changing the designation
 So we heard a lot of testimony that there's already a lot of congestion and a lot of mixed use in the corridors and that there wasn't support for the neighborhood, the changes in the neighborhood. You heard testimony from folks in the neighborhood expressing concern. You heard testimony in favor from North Northeast Business Association. Correct. Yeah, so this is an attempt to narrow the question and focus the change on just those properties.
 One of the things about the street classification is that it's currently a local service street, which may need to be revisited when the TSP street classifications come to council. It may make sense to look at that given these designations. But if we left it at R2, that wouldn't necessarily change. Correct. So, Mayor, I appreciate your willingness to propose something that's more surgical and
 I think it still should stay R2, given the intensity of uses elsewhere, particularly on Williams and Vancouver. Yeah, and I think there will be traffic regardless. Yeah, the question is, do you want more? We can say that about the future of Portland. There will be traffic. So what kind of pattern and place do we want to create is the more important question to me. And is this a place where a small amount of redevelopment makes sense? It's a close call.
 Yeah, the question is would it be mixed use or would it be purely residential? Right. So that's the concern I have is changing it to mixed use. I move the motion. Okay. Ready to vote? Let's take a vote, please. So, again, this is on a map amendment that would extend the mixed use designation to that smaller set of parcels, right, from R1. Okay. Roll call. Fish. No. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye.
 Fritz. No. Hales. Aye. Okay. That's done. All right. Let's keep going. M45 and M71. Let me take them together. So this is involving the 60th Avenue station area, and then there were some refinements through the mayor's subsequent memos. It also includes – Euclid Heights.
 Yeah, this includes also on a subsequent – sorry, I'm moving through because I lost the screen with the picture of Euclid Heights. This isn't Euclid Heights. This is 60th, right? This is the station area. Yeah. We had included Euclid, so let's, for the sake of not confusing people, let's pull Euclid out of this to address that next. So that's 71. Which one is which? It's one of the items in your subsequent memo. You're going to have to help me there. So which amendment is which? Okay.
 They're both involving the 60th Avenue station. Euclid was mentioned in your memo, so let's just pull that for now. All right, let's pull that out.
 And consider the 60th properties, right? That's what's before us, and that's M45? Yeah, so first M45. This came originally from the Rose City Park neighborhood, and they requested sort of a reconfiguration of the zoning north of the 60th Avenue MAC station. All right, let me get this in play. I move to adopt map amendment M45 as refined by the mayor's April 11th memo. Second. And, Mayor, this does appear to have broad community support. I move the motion. Okay.
 Everybody good on this one? Well, I think that we just got a letter from the Anti-Displacement Coalition saying that they advocated no vote because these decrease allowable density around the 60th Avenue light rail station. So I'd just like to hear staff respond to that argument. This doesn't change the density so much as reconfigure it because it moves. It adds mixed-use zoning along a spine of 60th. It reduces the intensity more.
 in the neighborhood from RH to R1, but the number of units is comparable because of the mixed-use addition. Yeah, and this was something that the neighborhood worked a lot on to try to come up with a pattern that made more sense. I think it does. And the minor change was involving just showing where the break between the –
 the lower intensity to the right-hand side, that lighter purple color, and the neighborhood mixed use here. No, I think it's all supposed to be neighborhood mixed use because originally that was dispersed. But once we added the other mixed use along 60th, it all becomes neighborhood mixed use. That's not what the map is showing. I know. That's a map error. It's supposed to be.
 Okay, so to clarify the whole – Clarify that, Deborah? All the pink and purple should all be mixed-use neighborhood. Originally, the portion that says CN2 that's a lighter shade, that was a standalone mixed-use originally, so we showed that as dispersed mixed-use. But once we've added the additional area of mixed-use, then it no longer makes sense for that one tail to be dispersed, so we think the whole thing should be neighborhood mixed-use.
 That was what we had worked out. I think we're on the verge of complicating something that actually had to be passed. This one might be simple. I had called the motion. Okay, let's take a vote. Fish. Aye. Foxman. Aye. Novich. Aye. Fritz. I very much appreciate the engagement of the River City Park neighborhood and the mayor's amendments. Aye. Hales. Aye. So now Euclid, and I need to find that in my PowerPoint. I think it's at the end as a –
 Here we go. So the Euclid Heights question, which doesn't have an amendment number because it was raised in the mayor's memo, this is a small subdivision, post-war subdivision, that is currently zoned and designated R2.5. It's got kind of a unique curvilinear pattern in there with relatively intact older homes. It –
 Probably was originally designated R2.5 because it's not too far from the Hollywood Max stop, but it is up the street a little ways past 47th. And so the amendment request is to take that from R2.5 to R5.
 I believe based on sort of an argument of preserving neighborhood character. This is a classic case, and Eastmoreland's the same thing on a larger scale, of do we want to create a zoning incentive to tear down the old houses and build the higher density?
 And it's an intact area of well-kept historic homes adjacent to more of the same east and north. So that's why I was very sympathetic to this. I think it needs to be preserved. Same thing with Laurelhurst. I mean, Laurelhurst is right across the walkway from the light rail stop, and it's R5. So I support this amendment. So I would move the Euclid Heights unnumbered amendment. Seconded.
 Further discussion? Okay, let's take a vote, please. Fish. Aye. Feltzman. Aye. Novick. I think I'll go with the Anti-Displacement Coalition on this and vote no. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Onward. Okay, that brings us back to...
 The Eastmoreland Amendment? Eastmoreland. Okay. So I think we're all pretty familiar with this one. I move to adopt MAP Amendment M74, which would redesignate the Eastmoreland Plan District as R7 rather than R5. Is there a second? Okay. There's no second. All right. We've got to move on. 46, M35. I move to adopt MAP Amendment M35. Is there a second? Second. Okay. So walk us through this one.
 This is an amendment that involves creating a slightly deeper node of mixed use at 17th and Sherritt primarily, which is currently sort of part of the step down on either side of the mixed use. This came from testimony from the Brummel family, which is the property owner. There's been some discussion in the Selwood neighborhood, and I believe –
 um i believe the neighborhood is as weighed in against it but i want to look for confirmation i believe the term is vehement opposition yeah yes weighed in is one way to put it i think it's been framed and i would move the motion there okay ready to vote roll call yes nope uh yes novick
 I think that this is a good opportunity to let more people live near the new orange line. And since I somewhat feel a tinge of regret whenever I go into that neighborhood that I wasn't able to stay there in order to use the orange line, I think more people should have the opportunity that I'm missing. Yes. I have only to look at the map to see the pattern on this. Yeah, I think that to expand this would overreach. No. Okay. Okay.
 S-12. I move to adopt a map amendment number S-12. Is there a second? Second. Okay. This is 17th and Ensley. This is the situation where originally there was going to be a stop, and now there isn't, right? Correct. So the effect of the amendment is to...
 is to up zone, right? The Planning Commission's recommendation was to remove RH from those properties. The amendment, which was from Commissioners Saltzman and Novick, I believe, would restore the RH to those. So a yes vote puts RH there. A no vote restores the Planning Commission's recommendation. Which is R1, right? Yes.
 I'm going to look to staff. Yeah, I think that that would all go to R1, I'm pretty sure. Sure.
 And there was a neighborhood process we did for this area prior to proposing the original plan that went to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. So the neighborhood opposes this amendment? Yes, we also heard testimony opposing that's from the neighborhood. I don't know if any of you have ever tried to get to this area by bus rather than light rail. It is not an easy thing to do. It's a slow ride on the number 19. I know it well.
 Yep, okay. Well, it's even further than from where you live. No, it's actually closer. But still. Well, interesting. Is there ability to put a light rail station in there in the 20-year horizon? There's no physical possibility to putting a station in there. It's not physically impossible, and they kind of built the light rail so that there's room to do that in the future. There's just no current plan. Okay.
 Right. When we were doing the smaller area planning process with the neighborhood, we did consult with Tramitt, and they said it would be – they didn't want to be absolute in their language to say no, but it sounded very unlikely given the configuration of the line when elevated and –
 A number of other reasons. Is that unlikely over 20 years? It's not in the TSP project list that you've considered. Certainly in the 20-year period it would be extremely unlikely. It would be quite expensive because of the way they constructed the line to retrofit a station. It would be quite difficult. Just to clarify, R1 was the staff recommendation, so we both know that's what we're keeping? Correct. Okay, ready to vote?
 okay roll call please no no novick no no no no okay all right um f83 southwest barber i moved to adopt map amendment f83 which would change 2815 southwest barber from mixed-use urban center to mixed-use neighborhood second okay give us some a little more background on this one please sorry
 This is the Under Armour site, which is the former Y next to Dunaway Park. It's currently developed with a building that I believe is approximately 30 to 35 feet tall. It's a three-story building. The PSC recommendation was urban center. The zoning designation here –
 Right now, I believe on the zoning map is still under discussion, but the staff proposal was a neighborhood designation. The urban center is what the comp plan was given, which is consistent with what's across the street and to the north. To the south, you can see some of the...
 Other properties on First, which have the same color on this map, are also in the neighborhood category because First was a neighborhood corridor. The orange color is our 2.5 in this case. So this is the site adjacent to Dunaway Park. And so the issue is what's the intensity that's possible in redevelopment?
 yeah and i think that the core question is is this more like the central city designation to the north or is it more like the residential neighborhood designation to the south my recommendation is that it's more like the south in part because of the impact on the park of a six or seven story building which would be double the height that it's currently being developed at and that they
 current intent over the 20-year period is to perhaps add another story which can be done under the CN 2 designation. I have a question for staff. How does mixed-use civic corridor compare with mixed-use urban center in terms of allowed building heights? Similar. The civic corridor's designation is given to
 streets that are the big boulevards in the city, one of which is Barber and Sandy or 82nd is another. Because they're wider streets, the zones, the full spectrum of larger mixed-use zones are allowed on those streets. So you could conceptually have a CM3 zone here if it was given the urban center designation or the civic corridor designation.
 So back to the question about height, though. What's the difference? The urban center would allow the CM3, which would give you a 55-foot height or 65 with bonuses. The neighborhood would give you more like 45. Okay.
 And in my eye, this site could go 55, 60 feet. That would not be unreasonable, given the scale of what's to the north of it. You're right, to the south, it changes. It also, just because of its peculiar location, doesn't shade the park. It's north and east of the park, where a tall building on the south side of the park has a much more serious effect on light in the park. This won't.
 I look at this in context and also based on the history of the site, but I move the motion. Okay. Are you ready to vote? Are you ready to vote? All right. Let's take a vote, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. No. Novick.
 I think when you look at the definition of mixed-use urban center, it says this designation is intended for areas that are close to the central city where urban public services are available or planned, including access to high-capacity transit, very frequent bus service or streetcar service. This site is well served by buses and will be served by a future southwest corridor high-capacity transit line. Cross my fingers. No. Great. Hi. Hi.
 No. That fails. All right. Next.
 Hayden Island. So I believe you brought this back because you kind of wanted to see the whole package of things related to Hayden Island, which includes… Right, the change of the language on the bridge. Right, the item below it is the change in the language to the project description on the bridge. Since that meeting, we also had brought to our attention testimony that came in at the last minute from Walter Valenta in the Bridgeton neighborhood…
 concern, expressing concerns of folks there about the dispersed designation, which is they're located on the map to the right and below. And so we've had a request for them to be included in the neighborhood center designation as well there to get mixed-use neighborhood, essentially. Okay.
 So that's a late-breaking sort of request that came in and the testimony that arrived in your final hearing that we're just sifting through. Mayor, could we take a three-minute break? Sure. Just we're losing staff at 5. Absolutely. We're going to go to 6 if that's all right. Just a three-minute break. We're going to take a three-minute break for mercy's sake and then come back. Thank you. Thank you.
 I was aware of the Richard piece I mean it was in the testimony I think I've got that part of the Bible I don't know
 Zoom, I know our colleagues are going to rejoin us here. And we think we have a plan of action here, which is we're going to work for about 30 more minutes and then stop for the day and take the rest of this into 2 p.m. tomorrow. So some of you, my apologies, are here waiting for things that are down the list. And obviously we're not going to get all the way down the list by 6 o'clock today. So why don't we pick where we're going to stop so we can –
 uh, let people go. Um, looking at this Canyon court thing is going to, is going to involve some discussion. Rossi farm. I think it won't be that hard. Uh, we want to go through number 54, the Metro properties. Great. Stop there. That work. Okay. All right. So, uh, we are at Hayden Island and, um, explain to us, uh,
 both the original proposal and the Bridgeton piece. Yeah, so there's actually three pieces of this on the table that you might want to just take individually to keep it simple. Okay, I think that's a great idea. The first item was confirming, reiterating the neighborhood-centered designation on Hayden Island itself and
 That is the second item then is to rewrite the project description for the potential Hayden Allen Bridge to emphasize the transit orientation of it and
 And then the third item is to consider the request from Bridgeton to get a similar designation. So maybe one of those at a time. All right, so let's take them in order. I move to adopt Map Amendment M70, which would change a portion of Hayden Island from mixed-use dispersed to mixed-use neighborhood. Second. All right, and Commissioner Fritz, what's your position on this? Yes. I move the motion. Okay, anyone else have a question before we do? All right, let's take a vote, please. Yes. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, next motion. I move to adopt the refined Hayden-Iowa Bridge project description. Second. Any discussion? Let's take a vote. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Good catch. Commissioner Fritz? Aye. Thank you.
 The third element is the Bridgeton question, which is an area along the southern shore of the Columbia Slough, not the Columbia Slough, the Oregon Slough.
 it's developed um it's kind of a unique area along the columbia river and that it's developed with mixed use and residential development um fairly intensively it's a combination of townhouses and um more intensive buildings closer to the freeway um it it's currently zoned um
 CM, which is kind of a unique zone in the current designation, but it does allow higher buildings. The concern is that the dispersed designation we've given it would reduce the allowed height there effectively to 35, which given the character of some of the larger buildings that have been developed there to date, the folks there don't think that makes sense.
 The request was to apply the mixed-use neighborhood designation in this segment here. And these are some pictures of the character of what's built there already. So as you can see, a lot of them are four stories already. I think this – I'm interested to hear your thoughts because this is a late-breaking development that came in in written testimony. I think it makes sense. But what's your – First, I just want to say that I want to compliment –
 Eric, after a long day with the way he's keeping all these designations straight. But I am going to just preview that if he ever says CH2M Hill, then I'm going to call for the hearing to be suspended. I will personally take him to a medical intervention. Thank you. Staff supports this. I think the character of what's been built there is –
 it's all modern new development and what's been built there is consistent with the neighborhood designation it is close to the expo max station it's unfortunately across a freeway but that's something that over time can be improved in terms of the of the pedestrian and bike connections so i think in the long term that makes sense okay so i move to make the change as depicted in eric's slide 69 second second
 I do just want to follow up with another process question. It wasn't on the amendments list, so the only testimony we've had from it was from the person who asked for it. Yeah, it came from testimony, essentially. Yes. Is there any concern that there should be more consideration or –
 I hear you, and we don't always make this personal, but when someone who's been involved in neighborhood planning brings us an amendment like this that makes a lot of sense, I'm less nervous about it than if it was a self-interested property owner. Right. And we're making this decision. We'll have a final vote in a while. So if it turns out that the neighborhood, that others vehemently disagree with this, there is the option at the end to do some final tweaking. Yes.
 Yeah, if when we're doing the final vote there were a few fine-tunes within limits, as long as you don't upset the findings in some fundamental way, I think that's doable. Emphasis on within limits. Yeah. Or another 20 different amendments would not be appropriate. The other thing that makes me more comfortable with this is essentially the amendment gets it more comparable to the current zoning. Yes. So this isn't changing something beyond what's already there. Okay. Let's take a vote, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye.
 The Bridgeton Neighbours Plan was the first thing I did on the Planning Commission in 1996. I want to acknowledge Ellen Riker, who walked the entire neighbourhood with us, which is not all that far, and gave us a really good briefing to it. So, yes, I agree with this. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Okay. All right. Let's move on to N-14. I move to adopt MAP Amendment N-14, which would change 6141 Southwest Canyon Court to R-5. I'll second it for discussion. Okay. Again, this one's a little complicated, and I wasn't here last time. So could either Commissioners Novick or Saltzman just bring me up to date on any additional wrinkles on this motion?
 I will take a shot and explain where I am on this with accepting a suggestion, actually, from Commissioner Saltzman's office. I would support this with a significant caveat. I'm concerned about having property zoned R20 that doesn't have additional constraints like environmental overlays or steep slopes. This property is located near sidewalks and transit service, not frequent transit service, and some retail. It's like four blocks from a Starbucks, I happen to see.
 It's a relatively flat site. It's not show retail. It occurred to me that maybe we should just have a rule that there's no R20 within four blocks of a Starbucks. This is the lot that's just down from East Sylvan. Yeah, it's right next to the freeway. And it's a relatively flat site near a relatively new apartment complex, and I don't know that maintaining R20 as a zone makes, I mean, as a designation makes sense. But there have been considerable community concerns about this amendment, and what Commissioner Saltzman suggested, I believe,
 was that a way to kind of split the baby is to vote yes, but give direction to PSC to keep the zoning R20, which would mean the property would need to apply for the owner would have to apply for a zone change, which would be appealable to council, so the neighbors would have additional process. And that would be a type three land use hearing? Yes.
 Yeah, it was on change. Yes. And so the neighbors would have an opportunity to weigh in, and the council would decide the question in a quasi-judicial proceeding. Well, it would come to council, right? And, Deborah, is that a kind of a hybrid that we've done elsewhere?
 I'm looking to Catherine to make sure that what we just said was correct. Yeah, it would be a zone change in conformance, so it would not necessarily be. So it comes to council on appeal. On appeal. A comprehensive plan map change would come to you. I appreciate the attempt to find a middle ground here, but we can still do that. I think this is one where we can cut cleanly. I think R20 is a...
 country road zone, you know, which applies to places along the skyline, and this ain't that place. So I don't think this one's that hard. Well, Mayor, let's take the motion as drafted and see if we have the votes, and if not, let's move on. All right. So I'm moving the amendment cleanly, and it was second. Could I just ask to please put the zoning map for that area up? Because my concern is this is one law. If this is good for the area.
 Are there others that it should apply to, too? The property across the street is a water bureau tank, so that's probably not that relevant there. The properties up the street is more of a country road kind of thing. And what are they? R20. R20. But most of the other properties right on the freeway there are – this is the only property right on the freeway aside from the water tank that is R20. Okay.
 Is that an active water gang? Yeah. And am I correct that some of the other properties are an environmental overlay? There are environmental overlays in this neighborhood. We didn't bring that map, but the air photo is here if it gives you a sense. What it looks like from the photo, I'd be surprised. Yeah, I doubt that this is an environmental overlay. It does have a couple trees on it.
 If I could support the compromise, I do think that there should be additional process to make sure that the transportation system is capable of supporting it on this. Well, let's test whether we have a clean or we need to come back with an amendment. Because the frontage is on the side street, not on the main street. Okay. Well, I think we should take a vote and see where we are. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick.
 I'm torn on this because I do want to change the designation, but I do want to give the neighbors an opportunity to make their case down the road. So an extremely hesitant no. No. Hi. Okay, that's approved. Let's go on to F72. F72.
 which is the Rossi Farm property, I move to adopt MAP Amendment No. F72 concerning Rossi Farm and vicinity as further refined by my memo of April 11th and April 28th. I'm going to second this and also just note that this is the penultimate meeting in which Joe Rossi will be present.
 And he has already claimed the mantle of the best attendance rate of any participant in the comp plan, so I just want to acknowledge that again. Just a staff note about the details here. The property here that says memo addition, that's the one that would be to mixed use, but then the more recent amendment memo also references the R7 property to the left, which is part of the school district property.
 Part of their site is vacant but zoned R7, and so the expansion, the change there was designed to give more flexibility for that site boundary in the future should there. It's a little bit parallel to what we did to the north to reconfigure the zoning so that the vacant sites there were contiguous, would still have multifamily or mixed-use zoning. Yeah, it gives the school district some options in the future to participate in a redevelopment scheme that.
 integrates the school better with the new neighborhood. Right. I'd like to say I support the mixed-use civic corridor designation.
 I was recently at the Argate Terrace Neighborhood Association, and they were talking about the schools. There are two elementary schools in this catchment district as well as the middle and the high school, and about the importance of maintaining the balance between single-family homes and apartments. And we've already designated the east side of 122nd to be R3 and mixed-use.
 It seems to me that leaving this new addition labeling at R7 would provide the balance for the whole development that the neighborhood wants and provide a range of options within the entire Rossy Farm development.
 Yeah, I hear you, but I don't agree. I mean, I think this is a real opportunity site in the plan, and there's no guarantee that it will be done right, but we've certainly heard some assurances about the general plan for it. There is an opportunity here to create a real neighborhood center. It wouldn't have to all be rental housing. Of course, it could be ownership in different areas.
 configurations in single-family houses and there are a lot of single-family houses in the surrounding parts of our gay terrorists and Park Road so I think this as proposed works well I move the motion see where we are this has nothing to do with my vote but I want to just once again state that as someone who occasionally goes to Rossi farm to buy fresh vegetables
 It is a point of great pride, I think, for all of us that beefsteak tomatoes are the signature dish of Ringside East, which I hope in any future development pattern we are still able to buy those beefsteak tomatoes at Rossi Farm. Aye. Feltzman? Aye. Novick? Thanks to the mayor for his leadership as we work to get this change right. Aye. Fritz? I proposed the original amendment, and I'm disappointed I can't support it. I don't support the new addition. No. Okay.
 This is a great opportunity and I look forward to hoping that it will get realized. Obviously, urban design and other considerations will still have an effect on our regulatory approach, but it's a real opportunity site. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to Carruthers. Carruthers.
 Moved to adopt the southeast Carruthers amendment noted in the Commissioner fish memo dated April 20th Which would change properties on southeast Carruthers between southeast 35th place to southeast 38th Avenue as our 2.5 second Okay refresh us on this please The current designation and the planning commission slide. Can you sorry? Can you take the slide back to full screen? Oh, sorry. I
 Thank you. The current designation and the Planning Commission recommendation was mixed use on these lots. They are currently in residential use. It's not directly on Division. It's the backside of the Division site. Okay. This is the back half of those parts. Yeah. The Planning Commission's view here was that it's rare to have an opportunity for full block deep development, and they supported getting more of those opportunities. This is kind of at a node of development. Okay.
 The residents of that street opposed the current mixed use and did advocate for its removal at the Planning Commission unsuccessfully. So this amendment kind of reflects a request that the Planning Commission didn't make. So the difference really is significant.
 Adopting the amendment would allow this to be more of a R2.5 attached house or duplex scale. Voting down the amendment would leave open the possibility of full block mixed use or multifamily buildings reaching all the way back to Carruthers here. Are you sure it's not the other way around? I think that's right. The amendment is to take away the mixed use and put R2.5, which is a lower density –
 So the amendment precludes full block mixed-use development here, but would allow more of a townhouse scale facing Carruthers. So further west, it still would be full block, right? There is an existing – well, further east is Chavez. Further west, there's some existing commercial – there's an existing mixed-use building that goes all the way to Carruthers there, which is why we didn't change that.
 And then there's a parking lot and a mixed-use development. So, yeah, further west, there'd be a little node there of deeper. And there's this one site here on Carruthers and 37th is an existing warehouse kind of building that isn't residentially used. But the pattern in the areas you've surrounded by the boxes and are subject to the amendment is mostly existing single-family houses, right? Correct. This is an area that was obviously hot. It was...
 hotbed of controversy when we did the changes on division and displaced the traffic. And we're now sort of creeping into the neighborhood with the sort of development that comes on top of the parking displacement. And I'm not going to go to the mat on this, but it seems to me to be a reasonable motion. Yeah, I agree. And what does the Richmond Neighborhood Association say about the amendment? Yeah.
 I think they were, I'm not sure if they've weighed in formally as a group. They may have been a little split. I know Doug Klotz has advocated against the amendment. Other folks from Richmond, including the neighbors here, have advocated in favor of the amendment. To me, it's a balancing question, but we've made a significant policy commitment around division, but we've also said that we want to protect the integrity of some of the residential areas and
 i i could go either way on this one but i would yeah i i understand i i i think i support them okay are we ready to vote i'm still confused because what you just said doesn't
 match my understanding of what the amendment is. So the amendment... You want it to be residential, Commissioner Fisher? R2.5. Yeah. He wants it to be R2.5 so that instead of mixed-use urban centers, so there's less of an incentive to take single-family houses out. I want to do what I can to protect the R2.5 residential character of that area. Thank you. I appreciate the explanation. All right. Are we ready to vote? Let's take a vote, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? No. Novick? No. No.
 I So I moved to adopt the revised description project for 0116 oh, this is the seventh and ninth Bikeway, okay, and P bot staff. I believe are here if you have questions for them. Is there a second second?
 And so what has changed here is that some revised language got produced, right? Correct. And I think PBOT might be better equipped to describe that. Yeah, so could you come describe that language, which I like. Good afternoon, Council Members. Peter Hurley, Portland Bureau of Transportation. So on Project 40116, staff had originally proposed a specific alignment program
 for the neighborhood greenway that would run from uh weidler to sumner on northeast 7th and then from sumner north to holman on northeast 9th and what we're proposing based on the public comments we've received it's been fairly extensive public comment and discussion within the neighborhood about the pros and cons of seventh and ninth
 We feel like that process is playing out well and would like to let a specific alignment be determined during the design process. So we're proposing an amendment that would designate the corridor as neighborhood greenway and, during the design process, determine what are the appropriate design treatments on 7th, 9th, in any particular traffic calming or diversion
 that are appropriate. So the amendment would allow for a broader, less specific designation for 7th and 9th as the Neighborhood Greenway Court would.
 In other words, we don't have to choose 7th or 9th right now. Yes. Yeah. All right. I think that's a good solution, and it's a complicated project, so I appreciate that. Any further discussion before we vote on the amendment? And there will be a full public process to decide which of them to do, if and when there's any funding for it.
 I think we'll just let everybody on eighth decide. Before we vote on this, Steve, I'm deeply divided on this. I have some things later we'll be taking up. Can you give me some reassurances? All right. Let's take a vote, please. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novar? Thanks to staff for coming up with the solution. And thanks to Chris Smith for that second. Aye. Aye.
 I agree it's an elegant solution. Aye. Hales. I appreciate the solution, and I think there's some real interesting tradeoffs in how you make this work on one street or the other. Both are possible. We'll see which way it works out. Aye. Thank you. Thanks, Peter.
 Okay, let's take our last item of the day, which is number 54, or Metro Properties. So I move to adopt MAP amendments on Metro Property as described in item 4 of my April 28th memo. Mayor, this is listed as 55. It's 55. Sorry, I was going back to my old one. Second. Okay, so these are the Metro parcels. Everybody clear on this? Have we had any opposition to this, staff? No.
 No, but recognizing again that this came in as testimony during your final hearing, so there wouldn't have been an opportunity for opposition to come in after that if no one had seen the request. I'm still a little mystified as to why Metro wants these designations. Have they given you any clarity about that? I believe it reflects their sort of fiduciary position.
 feeling over the properties and the fact that they don't have master plans for these sites yet and so they want to retain flexibility. There are scenarios where they would sell off a portion if they did a master plan and there was some kind of...
 That's not very persuasive to me, actually. I mean, again, Selwood Riverfront Park, really? So I think if Metro wanted to sell these properties for purposes other than open space, they should come to the council with a comp plan amendment rather than us changing the zoning to a residential zone now. Can I make a suggestion, Mayor? If this is the last one we're going to take up,
 Why don't we suspend this, give them a chance to submit something to us? Can we do that? As a courtesy. One government to another? In lieu of testimony. You can, recognizing that if we take it up tomorrow, that might be not much time for them to react. You know what? Given what the mayor just said, I have a feeling it will be on our desk at 9 o'clock. A rather robust professional staff. I think that's a fine idea. Let's give them the chance. One staff note I would make is that of those properties, the one with the least troublesome –
 issues is the marine drive parcels where I believe they were purchased for a trail, and so there may be rationale in not owning the whole site. Let's let them make that case. Last time I checked, you can build a trail in open space. Do we have to get a property owner's permission to make something open space? Yes.
 No, and you already did an opt-in amendment in Selwood where you zoned some Metro property open space over their objection, so you can. All right, well, we'll continue this item until tomorrow, and that's where we'll take up then, and we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m., right? Great job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good job. Thank you all. 2 p.m., huh?