Yes. All right. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the May 24th, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here.
 Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Colleagues, pursuant to PCC 3.02.025, Commissioner Udaly is participating by telephone because of illness. And without Commissioner Udaly's participation by telephone, there's not a sufficient number of
 It would jeopardize the public interest health safety or welfare. Therefore, unless there is an objection by any member of the council, Commissioner Eudaly will participate in today's hearing by teleconference for the entire council session. Actually, I do have a problem with that. What is the health jeopardy? I'm just reading the script. Okay.
 Legal counsel, can you get a clarification, please? I'm actually reading of two different ones. The first script citing state statute says without participation by telephone, there's not a sufficient number of council members present to conduct all of the city's business. That doesn't seem appropriate. The second one that I've been handed says unless there's jeopardized public interest, health, safety, or welfare, I think it's so she can participate by phone if she'd like.
 Could you specify what that public health interest is? I'll leave this to legal counsel. I apologize. I wasn't aware that there was going to be electronic communication today, so I will discuss this section. Counsel has typically interpreted that very broadly to allow persons who are not available to attend to attend when they haven't. You could identify that it is in the public interest to have all the
 the items that we have on council today. At this time, I mean, I don't have access right now to other opinions we've made on that, but we've definitely interpreted it fairly broadly in the past, and that would be up to councils. Is my ability to appear by phone being contested right now? I'm asking questions about the commissioner. What? Well, I'd say that my participation is in the public interest, and there are things that I want to give...
 my opinion on and vote on today and that's why I'm appearing by phone when I should actually be in bed. I apologize if I appear cranky. I'm not well myself so I got myself here. So is there an objection or is there not an objection? I'm not hearing an objection. Is that correct? Very good. So we will continue. Legal counsel, thank you for the statement.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings, so everyone can feel comfortable, welcome, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with Council Clerk for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 When you're testifying, you state your name for the record and disclose if you are a lobbyist. The presiding officer determines like of testimony. It's typically three minutes. When you have 30 seconds, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping keep your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. Colleagues, yesterday we had set over item number 508 from the agenda to a 2 p.m. certain item today. Carla, could you please read item 508?
 amend the transportation fee schedule to incorporate the multimodal incentive fees for the pre-approved transportation demand management plan per City Code Chapter 17.107 and exempt affordable dwelling units from the multimodal incentive fee until June 30, 2020. Commissioner Saltzman. Thanks, Mayor. I'll turn it over to Steph.
 Mark Pierce, Liz Horman, and Steve Hoyt-McBeth. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I'm going to provide a quick introduction and then staff are going to go into more details. So a little bit of context about this specific fee. This was one that was deliberated and adopted in 2016 as part of a broader work on the Transportation System Plan and the Comprehensive Plan and is specifically trying to help support a healthy ecosystem in our centers and corridors, specifically those mixed-use zones.
 And this is where we anticipate about 30 percent of the growth to be coming as we're looking ahead over the next 20 years. And there's also areas that we're emphasizing transit service and other amenities to try to make it possible for someone to live without relying heavily on an automobile and to be able to have a lot of transportation options in those areas.
 This change was adopted right at tandem at the same time as when we changed increases in FAR, floor area ratio, in those areas, and also when we repealed requirements for off-street parking in that area. So there was a very specific benefit being provided to the developers at that time to try to help with that benefit.
 So this is a very, very important component, we think, particularly for the people who are living in those areas, that they have the adequate tools to adjust their travel behaviors and options as they are learning how to live in a mixed-use neighborhood. I think I'll pass it on to Steve Hoytman-Peth and Liz Horman, who can go into more details of the proposal itself. Thanks, Art. Thank you, Commissioners, Council. So, yeah.
 I'm going to give a, as I already mentioned, I'm going to give a brief history overview of this and turn it over to Liz for the kind of the details of the program. But I want to make sure first everybody recall what transportation demand management is. It's the kind of title that kind of your eyes gloss over when you hear. Essentially, it is about a group of strategies to reduce reliance on automobile trips and to encourage trips made by transit, walking, carpool, and biking. Okay.
 And I wanted to reiterate what today we are asking council to do. There are two things that we're asking council to do. One is to exempt affordable housing units from the multimodal incentive within the commercial mixed-use zones.
 And the second, based on previous council direction, is to amend the transportation fee schedule for the remainder of this fiscal year to include the multimodal incentive, which is part of the requirements of the new code. So, next slide, please. Thank you. What I wanted to reiterate is that what we're not asking council to do today is to.
 amend the zoning code or to take new action on policy aside from the waiver of affordable housing. Council already took that action in December of 2016 as part of the update to the comprehensive plan and the transportation system plan. Council unanimously approved
 changes to require transportation demand management actions in the commercial mixed-use zone for developments that are of 10 units or more that are within what we define as frequent service to transit, which is a 20-minute line. Next slide, please.
 And again, I just wanted to reiterate what transportation demand management is. It's something that we've been doing in Portland for a long time. It's a series of strategies to reduce driving. If council members have participated in Sunday Parkways, have participated or are aware of our Smart Trips program or of the subsidized transit programs both the city and thousands of employers do in our region, those are examples of transportation demand management.
 And then lastly, just to reiterate what Art had said earlier, the reason for creating this new requirement, one was to mitigate the transportation and parking impacts from new development along our mixed-use corridors, to reduce transportation costs behind housing. Transportation is the second highest cost that households endure. And lastly, to provide more travel options to Portlanders to help us meet our climate action goals and our congestion reduction goals.
 And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Liz.
 Great. Thank you, Steve. So before I dive into the details of our requested action today, I just want to also provide the overview of the TDM code requirements and some of the detail about developing the implementation process for that adopted code. So as Steve mentioned, this TDM requirement really applies to a very specific subset of development, which are outside the Central City Plan District in newly designated commercial mixed-use zones, include more than 10 new dwelling units, and are located close to transit. Okay.
 So if a development meets all of those thresholds, then it must have a Transportation Demand Management Plan approved prior to the issuance of a building permit.
 So this map is really to demonstrate where those commercial mixed-use zones are located. So as you can see, that zoning is really concentrated around our main corridors and our commercial centers across the city. The comprehensive plan has set the stage for this zoning to have new and denser housing, shops and services that are well-served by transit and are easily accessible by walking and bicycling.
 Additionally, through the comprehensive plan and mixed-use project that Art talked about, developments in these zones have a lower parking requirement, which on the one hand reduces overall development costs. However, there was also a recognition that with less parking but this access to transit, there needed to be programming in place to help people utilize those modes available to them and reduce the neighborhood parking impacts and impacts on the transportation system.
 So Portland is not leading the way on tying transportation demand management to new development. There are a number of other cities that require some sort of TDM in their development or development review processes. These various ordinances from other cities can take on many forms, from tying into zoning code requirements...
 to building site approval processes and are also tied to specific parking requirements for new and existing development. I just want to state my firm objection to the implication that the great city of Portland, Oregon is lagging behind Arlington, Virginia. Can I state that for the record? Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. But I also want to point out that in addition to these development-related TDM requirements, the cities also have robust employer and employee-focused TDM programs, which Portland does have and is doing a great job on. Thank you.
 So while these various TDM programs utilize different leverage points, the programs are able to work in tandem to offer TDM information and incentives to more people and thus help us move the needle towards our mode split goals, climate change goals, as well as helping mitigate the impact of more people on our transportation system.
 So in Portland, the zoning code outlines two options for a developer to meet their TDM plan requirement. The first is a custom TDM plan, which is a type 2 land use review process, where a developer must develop their own TDM plan, get it approved through the land use review process, and then are responsible for implementing those approved TDM strategies at occupancy.
 The second option is a pre-approved TDM plan, which is a much more administrative process. So the developer is subject to a one-time multimodal incentive payment for TDM incentives that will go directly back to the residents of that building that contributed the money. That's really the fee we're going to be talking about. This payment goes towards a package of multimodal incentives for the tenants. This could include value on a hot pass,
 bike share memberships, car share passes, things like that. Also at occupancy, a developer must allow PBOT to disseminate transportation options information and administer an annual transportation options survey of the building tenants for the first four years of occupancy.
 So it was these code requirements that were approved in 2016 by City Council, and Council subsequently directed PBOT staff to develop the administrative rules and implementation process. So PBOT staff have been working with our other bureaus over the past eight to ten months to really work to ensure that permits are reviewed and approved properly and in a timely manner.
 So at the time of adoption, the code was written that the multimodal financial incentive requirement is equal in value to an annual TriMet pass per unit. That current value is $1,100 per unit. However, as staff worked through and worked with other bureaus on implementation, concerns were raised around the impact of affordable housing.
 So therefore, we're proposing a separate rate for the multimodal incentive fee for affordable units in the transportation fee schedule, and then to exempt those units from the multimodal incentive fee for two years through June 30, 2020.
 So again, just to sum up why we're here today and bringing this one piece of the implementation package to you, the current transportation fee schedule does not include the multimodal incentive fee component. So we need to amend that schedule to include the multimodal incentive fees for market rate and affordable units. And then the second component is providing this exemption for affordable units only.
 to the multimodal incentive fee element for two years through June 30, 2020. And then finally, we are bringing this as an emergency today because we need this exemption for affordable housing and these lines in the transportation fee schedule to be in place as the comprehensive plan is enacted this afternoon. So again, thank you for your time today. We do have invited testimony, but we can answer any questions now or after that piece.
 Would you mind if I... I have two amendments I'd like to put on the table, and maybe it would be helpful to put them on the table prior to the invited testimony. Colleagues, I'd like to put...
 Two amendments on the table for your consideration, and I do this acknowledging that a tremendous amount of work has gone into shaping this ordinance long before I even sat here, and I want to be respectful of that. But I put these forward as amendments that I hope you will see as strengthening the commitment around affordable housing.
 But I'll let the chips fall where the chips might. So the first amendment I'd like to propose would be a Section D under the Section 2.
 D, there is a 2C currently. This would be the addition of a D. And the amendment language would be where exempt dwelling units are within buildings with other dwelling units subject to the multimodal incentive fee, the same multimodal incentives will be offered to all units in the building regardless of which units generated the fee. Any unclaimed or unused incentives will be offered to the exempt unit first, to the exempt units, plural, first. Okay.
 The reason for that, as you know, is the cost to provide the incentive per unit and build into the pro forma of any given development is equivalent to the cost of providing a transit pass for one year. That's $1,100.
 And since the incentive is calculated on a per-unit basis, any unclaimed or unused incentives, in my opinion, should first be prioritized and offered to the affordable units. And so that is the spirit in which I offer Amendment Language D. Second. There is a second. Could I just ask a clarifying question, please? Commissioner Fritz. Yes.
 I don't understand what it means by any unclaimed or unused incentives will be offered to the exempt units first. Does that mean that they only get to have them if the units that paid get first dibs?
 So the way that the multimodal incentive payment comes in and is collected on a per building basis, so when at occupancy we'll go out and speak with tenants and the property managers to distribute those multimodal incentives and so we can prioritize those units right from the get-go. So then don't you want to just say incentives will be offered to the exempt units first? I don't understand why it says unclaimed or unused.
 I think that's just perhaps with the perception that they might have been tied to the unit, in which they're not. They're by the whole building. So it would be fine to say that they will just be prioritized for those exempted units. I would accept that as a friendly Scribner's addition. They're deleting any unclaimed or unused containers. Very good. So there's a motion and a second on that. The second one, colleagues.
 would be adding Amendment Language Paragraph E immediately following D, obviously. The Portland Bureau of Transportation is directed to report back to the Council by September 30, 2018, with options for how to fund an equivalent level of multimodal incentives for the exempt units for the duration of the exemption period. Funding priority will be given to buildings where all units are exempt.
 And the purpose for this, colleagues, is that under the current proposal, any affordable unit, 80% MFI or below, that has a covenant with the city around affordability, so 60 or 99 years, is exempt under the ordinance. We want to make sure that we balance the production of the affordable housing without cost burdening our partners or
 with ensuring that tenants of affordable units receive the same transportation benefits as tenants of market rate units. In other words, this is a study. It's geared towards...
 If you think about organizations like REACH, they are currently exempt from this ordinance, so they neither pay the fee nor do they provide the passes. This is simply an ask of the Bureau of Transportation to do a hard look and see if there isn't a way to potentially fund passes for the folks in those buildings where they are exempt but living in affordable units. I'll second. And Commissioner Saltzman seconds that. Thank you. Again, I have a question. Sure. Sure.
 So this only counts where all the units are exempt or where there are more exempt units than non-exempt units because according to your First Amendment, the exempt units are going to get offered at first. So I'm not quite sure what it means...
 So that would be in a building, however, where the building itself is not exempt. The project is not exempt. Whereas in this case, they are completely exempt. And I don't know if staff has anything to add to that. This would be an entirely affordable building looking for a funding stream to be able to provide those incentives to the residents of those buildings. So a building that doesn't have any market rate. So, yes, 100% affordable units in that development. Okay.
 Then it would be more sensible to say fund an equivalent level of incentives for buildings where all the units are exempt. I will accept that language. I have no problems with that. Commissioner Saltzman, are you still okay to second it without language correction? Very good. And now you have a panel. Very good. Thank you for your indulgence. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Chris Smith, Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, presenting the Commission's recommendation. Thank you.
 So we considered this as part of the TSP and included it in the comp plan, as you did. I think it's important to establish the context that our comp plan isn't going to work if we're not successful in a significant shift in the modal choices that people in Portland make.
 had a trip generation rate per resident at the same rate we have today in 2035, we're going to be in big trouble. And causing that transition to happen is going to take a lot of tools. It will take infrastructure. It will take new transit services. And it will take programmatic action. So this is one of the programmatic actions. And we felt it was important to root this in the zoning code so that the time of occupancy –
 you're incenting the new residents to make changes in their behavior. Honestly, some of us would have preferred if it wasn't just a documency, if it was every new resident coming into a building got this kind of package. We don't have the economics to support that yet.
 at. But this is an important program, and I'm very much looking forward to you putting it into action. We did not look specifically at the affordability issues that you're talking about today. I would say, of course, the PSC is concerned about the cost of affordable housing, as you are, would reflect that.
 In some ways, the dollar will go further with residents of affordable units because they are, in general, less likely to own automobiles. They will often also be eligible for TriMet low fare programs. So a transit pass for somebody in an affordable unit, on average, will probably cost less than a transit pass for somebody in a market rate unit. So I appreciate your efforts to extend the benefit everywhere. I think that's important on an equity basis, but also your consciousness of the affordability issues. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Does that complete your panel? That's a heck of a panel. Thanks, Chris. You're holding down the entire table. That's good work. Do we have public testimony on this item, Carla? I'm sorry. I did not set out a sign-up sheet. Is there anybody here who would like to testify on this item? Could I see a show of hands if anybody is interested?
 Very good. Is this yes or no in the middle here? That's a no. All right. No, we're here for the next item. Very good. So, Carla, could you please call the roll then on Amendment No. 1? And just to clarify again, that's the one that will prioritize the new language that Commissioner Fritz offered, prioritizing the affordable units. Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Udaly? Commissioner Udaly, are you on mute? All that worked for nothing. Hello? Hello? I skipped that. Aye. I can get her reconnected. Oh, she just voted. Are you there? Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. First Amendment passes. Please call the roll on the second. I'm not. No one can hear me? Now we can. Now we can hear you just fine, Commissioner Udaly. Aye.
 uh please call the role on the second amendment fish hi salt smith i'm i'm i've been responding and i you daily i think she said yes i'm here okay we're calling roll on the amendment number two hello turn off your tv was that an eye if she's watching channel 30 she should turn it off yeah it was a timeline commissioner you daily yes okay are you voting aye on the second amendment
 Yes. Aye. Thank you. Wheeler. Aye. The second amendment is adopted to the main motion. Commissioner Fritz was skipped accidentally. I'm sorry. I checked you off. Sorry, Commissioner. Fritz. Aye. Very good. Please call the motion, main motion, as amended. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you, everybody.
 All right. So now, folks, I'd like to start off the afternoon by taking notice of the fact that the new 2035 Comprehensive Plan went into effect today at 1 p.m. So congratulations and thanks to everybody here who worked so hard on that. Portlanders obviously care a lot about land use, so this is an important moment.
 The Council is often in a position of making difficult choices on development issues. For a while now, we've been making those choices based on the policy framework adopted originally in 1980. While in many ways the 1980 plan was innovative and forward-thinking, it didn't address many of the pressing issues we have today in 2018.
 I appreciate the very hard work and thoughtful conversations and deliberations of my colleagues and previous councils that have spent a lot of time developing this new plan over a period of a number of years. It really reflects the best thinking of many community leaders, many who are here in this room today, and the input of thousands of Portlanders.
 Joe and Joe Zender, would you like to go ahead and remind us of this afternoon's sequence, please? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, everyone. This afternoon is a big milestone, like the Mayor just said. We've been working on this comprehensive plan for the last five years and longer in the case of the Central City Plan and the WE in this case.
 includes city staff and hundreds of others, community members, organizations, businesses, advocates, and others. So today we're taking the final steps to implement the new plan and getting one step closer to finishing the Central City 2035 plan.
 These plans lay the groundwork for some bold changes in the years to come. Physical changes to the city, better opportunities and outcomes for Portland residents, changes in the way that we do this work, and changes that embody our commitment that was expressed in the Portland plan to advance equity. Thank you.
 So this afternoon, we're going to finalize some actions that implement the new comprehensive plan. These are going to be the first folks to take with using this new plan as of 1 o'clock as the legal basis for our decisions about growth and development. So the three items are, first, we're going to hear from Portland Bureau of Transportation and take the final votes on the new transportation system plan.
 Second, we will take final votes on the code reconciliation and the map refinement projects. Those two projects in particular are full of details we had to cover to have a smooth transition to the new codes. And both of those are emergency ordinances set to take effect immediately since the Bureau of Development Services will be taking permits under the new plan and the new code tomorrow. Thank you.
 Finally, there will be a series of votes on the Central City 2035 plan, and these votes adopt the plan as amended and set up second reader for that plan on June 6th.
 So thank you for your leadership and your perseverance through all of it that took to get here. And with that, I'll turn it back to the mayor. Very good. Carla, could you please read the first two TSP items? And after that, Commissioner Saltzman will introduce them. If you could read 521 and 522, please. Yes. 521, amend the transportation system plan consistent with the 2035 comprehensive plan and in compliance with the regional transportation plan.
 amend River District Master Street Plan, add policies for automated vehicles, adopt findings of compliance, adopt corrections, amend Transportation and Parking Demand Management Code to clarify requirements, and 522, amend the Transportation System Plan to update introduction, modal plans, implementation strategies, and glossary.
 Very good. I'll turn this over to Commissioner Saltzman, and then after that we will be taking a vote on both 521 and 522 separately. Commissioner Saltzman. I will gladly turn this over to Courtney Duke. Thank you. Speak eloquently on this. Thanks. This is Courtney Duke from the Bureau of Transportation. Thank you, Commissioners and Council. Just a quick reminder, Joe went through it pretty well, but this is the third and final stage of the TSP update.
 Stages 1 and 2 were components of the Comprehensive Plan and were updated as a part of periodic review and voted on by Council in June and December of 2016. Stage 3 is a part of the Comprehensive Plan, but was not necessarily a part of that process. In March of 2018, some minor amendments to this stage were proposed by Commissioner Fritz related to automated vehicle policies, which were approved by the Council vote. And this will be your second reading and vote on that.
 for the resolution and the ordinance to complete the TSP update and finalize TSP 3. So a yes vote will implement the changes proposed. I just wanted to say on sort of a little bit of a personal note, possibly emotional note, we'll find out as I read it, the comprehensive plan, the TSP and the Portland plan has been over 10 years and over half of my career at the City of Portland. I started working on this in earnest when my son was 3 and he's now just turned 13.
 This plan leads the building of the future for him, his cohorts, and his descendants, not just for me, current voters, or current community members. It is a forward-looking document that reflects the changes to Portland within the years it was developed and the changes to come. The policy shifts and the use of the right-of-way as public and shared space, the inclusion of trails, context-sensitive design and pattern areas,
 The emphasis on safety and the emphasis on equity and inclusion are obviously positive and important additions to our policies and goals. Our commitment and policy changes to include all Portlanders and users of the transportation system in decision-making and in development of policies and projects reflects and celebrates the changes in our city. I look forward to collaborating with my colleagues on the implementation and integration of these policies into PBOT's strategic plan, our work plans, our codes, and our way of thinking.
 Much of this work will be led and implemented by newer faces than mine at PBOT. Colleagues that I am confident will lead the city well and be excellent stewards of the TSP. Thank you. Very good. And thank you for all your work on this. Thanks. Thank you very much. So if there's nothing more, I'll call the roll on item 521. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. This has been an epic process. Thank you to you and all of your cohorts. Thanks to former Commissioner Steve Novick and Leah Treat and all the work that they've done. And actually a massive number of people throughout the bureaus. It's not just the Transportation Bureau. It really does tie everything together because the streets are our public realm. And I'm very proud of this. Wheeler.
 Also proud to vote aye. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Congratulations. Thank you. Please call the roll on 522, Carla. Fish. Yeah. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Great. Thank you for your great work. So, Carla, could you please read the Code Reconciliation Items 523 and 524? And after that, Joe will elaborate, or perhaps Eric will. Very good.
 523, amend zoning regulations to implement the 2035 comprehensive plan through the code reconciliation project. 524, amend tree, noise, and sign regulations to effectively implement Portland City Code through the code reconciliation project. Good afternoon, Eric.
 Thank you, Commissioners. Mayor Wheeler, this is the final vote on this item. As an emergency ordinance, it would take effect immediately. The first ordinance amends the zoning code, Title 33, and the second one amends the related other city codes, Titles 11, 18, and 32.
 The reconciliation project amends city codes to ensure compatibility with zoning code amendments adopted in December 2016 to implement the 2035 comprehensive plan. It included many technical amendments to correct code references. It clarifies a number of things in response to BDS questions that have come up as we've been training staff to implement the new codes.
 The most significant element probably was to reconcile the new mixed-use zoning designations and several plan districts with the inclusionary housing codes. The item that got the most testimony, as you recall, was a suggestion to simplify the code by removing the buffer overlay, which we withdrew that amendment in response to testimony generated.
 You held a public hearing on this project on March 21st, and you discussed it subsequently in April, including several votes on amendments, which have now been incorporated. You then moved the substitute ordinance to a final reading today, so I believe this is ready for that final vote. And finally, I want to thank the project manager, Barry Manning, who couldn't be here today, who shepherded this process through. Very good. Is there any further discussion? No.
 Carla, could you please call the roll on S-523, please? Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Aye. Fritz. It's kind of challenging for people at home, I'm sure, to understand exactly how complicated this particular item is, and I very much appreciate Barry Manning's work on it. And I hope we've got everything right. It's likely that there may be a few things we might have to come back and look over again, but I want to thank everybody who participated in this process from the community. They helped catch things and suggest things that have made it better. Thank you very much for your work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, S524. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Carla, could you please read the map refinement item? That's S525. Aye.
 amend the 2035 Comprehensive Plan map, and amend the official city zoning map to carry out Portland's 2035 Comprehensive Plan. Very good. Marty Stockton will briefly remind us what this item includes. Great. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Marty Stockton. I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm the Southeast District Planner and the Project Manager on this ordinance before you. Okay.
 Today is the final vote on this item. It is an emergency ordinance and will take effect immediately. This ordinance amends the comprehensive plan map and the zoning map on a number of sites to accomplish several things. Number one, respond to the December 2016 City Council Directive, otherwise known as Exhibit O. Number two, reconcile maps that...
 with recent Bureau Development Services land use reviews that occurred after June 2016. Number three, address recently identified nonconforming situations. And number four, other technical and policy related map changes as appropriate. For example, changes to facilitate affordable housing and address city bureau coordination, overlay zone corrections, recently identified nonconforming commercial uses, and additional split zones.
 You held a public hearing on this project on March 14th. You discussed proposal in the testimony on April 4th, April 25th, and May 2nd. You voted on a number of amendments, actually just over 50 amendments from council, which have now been incorporated. You then moved the substitute ordinance to a final reading today. So I believe you are ready for the final vote.
 Very good. There's nothing more. Colleagues, Carla, could you please call the roll on this vote? S525, please.
 Fish Aye Saltzman Aye Udaly Aye Fritz I'm going to reflect like Courtney Duke It's been a very long time on this Thank you for all of your work In fact it goes back My participation beyond 10 years ago When I was first on the council To Mayor Potter and his Community Connect project And all the things that happened as part of that So this has been one of the central things That I've worked in in my time on the council With first Mayor Adams Then Mayor Hales And now Mayor Wheeler So
 Throughout that discussion, and particularly prompted by the community, affordability and anti-displacement are at the heart of all of these changes, leading to the adoption in June of 2016. With the new comprehensive plan and central city plan, we are allowing for 249,000 additional units of housing in Portland by 2035.
 According to Metro's regional growth forecast, Portland is expected to add 123,000 households in the next 20 years. So in other words, we have double the capacity in this new map that Metro assigns to us.
 Who this housing benefits, through what means and ends, is the crucial part of this conversation, which we will continue in the context of the residential infill project and on various different development projects. It's essential that we focus our efforts on affordable housing options and commercial options that serve all Portlanders, particularly those who are low income and at risk of displacement or further displacement. In upholding the policies of a 20-year plan that was...
 at the very core, a collective labour of love for the city. Thank you very much, Susan Anderson, for seeing this through, and Joe Zender and the excellent team at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for providing technical support and expertise throughout the process.
 The planning staff who work closely with mine include Eric Engstrom, Deborah Stein, who has since retired, Marty Stockton, Nan Stark, all of the district liaisons, and Barry Manning. Thank you to the members of the Planning and Sustainability Commission who did a lot of the hard work, dozens and dozens and dozens of hours of weeding through community testimony so that things that came to us were well vetted already. Lauren King, Lynley Rees, and now retired city attorney Catherine Beaumont, thank you for your work.
 My staff in particular, Claire Adamsick, Pooja Park, Tim Crail, as well as my former chief of staff, Tom Bizot. And finally, thank you to the 10,000 plus community members who gave your blood, sweat and tears on committees, workshops and hearings in every iteration of this plan as it came together.
 it's better because of the participation of the community of Portland. And that's what we mean by a comprehensive plan. This is a landmark. It's not just a land use plan. It's not just a transportation plan. This is a plan for Portland. It includes things that were in the Portland plan, that are in the Portland plan, like health and education and placemaking.
 and things beyond what we might normally think of as in the realm of planning and zoning. So it's truly a remarkable feat that we've managed to get through it all, helping each other out. And thank you very, very much to everybody who's been involved. Hi. Wheeler. This is a national model made better.
 And as Commissioner Fritz indicated, this has spanned over many years, three mayoral administrations. I'm certainly honored to have participated for the last 16 months and helped contribute my bit part to this. But it really was the community coming together and helping to define the future of this community.
 it is not just a document, it is a roadmap. And it's one that not only our community will continue to look to in the years ahead, it's one that other communities around the nation and even around the world, having just visited our sister city in Suzhou, China, that people all around the world will look to as the kind of roadmap that helps lead to a clear vision for the development of the community in the years ahead. So I'm very proud of all the work that many, many people have put in
 excellent, excellent work. And thank you to the community for your hard work on this and helping to create our comprehensive plan. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And that concludes our final vote on the comprehensive plan matter. Thank you all. And it feels good to have that wrapped up.
 So we're back today then to move on to the next phase. We're here to begin to finalize our work on the Central City 2035 plan. Just a reminder that the record is closed and that no further testimony will be accepted. Carla, could you please read these items? And that includes all items 526 through 530, please. Mm-hmm.
 526 adopt the central city 2035 plan amend the comprehensive plan comprehensive plan map transportation system plan Willamette Greenway plan Willamette River Greenway inventory scenic resources protection plan zoning map and title 33 repeal and replace prior central city plans and documents
 527, amend the Central City Plan District of the Zoning Code to increase bonus heights and impose master plan requirements in certain River Place sub-areas. 527, adopt the Central City 2035 Plan Volume 2A, Part 3, Environmental and Scenic.
 529, adopt the Central City 2035 plan action charts, performance targets, and urban design diagrams. And 530, adopt the Central City 2035 plan green loop concept report. Very good. Susan, you didn't get very much time to celebrate your last victory. There you go. So welcome back. Why don't you kick us off? We've learned to party fast.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council, Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And with the comprehensive plan now done and officially effective as of one hour and 48 minutes ago, we are here to finalize the work on the Central City Plan. All along, we knew...
 that we wanted to line up all the other work we wanted to get done, but we needed to get the comp plan done and completed first. And so we kind of worked on these things together. And here it's worked out that we have the comp plan done and are able to bring the central city plan right on its heels. For some of you on council, this has been a long road, working through all of the different quadrant plans, policies, and codes.
 and new ideas that we brought to you around housing and transportation and jobs and looking at industry in a new way.
 The creation of this plan provides a framework for the next 20 years to help ensure that the central city not only remains, but it grows more prosperous with 10,000 new jobs, more safe and resilient, that it's easy to get around, that it's green, healthy, and beautiful, and most importantly, that it's a great place to call home for more than 10,000 new residents of all incomes. Thank you.
 So, two more big steps to get done. Today you will review and vote on the last amendments, and on June 6th you will take your final vote. Unfortunately, we thought today might be the last day in the vote, and so I have to be out of town next week, so I'm going to take just a minute
 to thank you and to thank several people who are here and who have worked on the plan. I'll keep the list relatively short, but I do want to take this opportunity. There were literally hundreds of people who spent hundreds of hours on the Central City Plan working on committees, drafting plans, working in their neighborhood associations, working with environmental organizations, civic organizations, and bringing their comments to us.
 So thank you to all those who helped on the committees. Also, thank you to the local residents and businesses for your thousands of comments. Thank you to council for your leadership. And also to Mayor Sam Adams, who sort of started this process, and to Mayor Hales for continuing it.
 And thank you to the Planning and Sustainability Commission, especially the chairs of those commissions. And I say chairs because we went through three chairs during this process. Thank you to Catherine Schultz, our current chair, Andre Baugh, and Don Hanson. Thank you to my fellow bureau directors. So Leah Treat, Kimberly Branham, Mike Abate, Mike Jordan, Rebecca Esau, and their staff, some of whom are here.
 And lots of other bureau directors. This is not just BPS's plan. This is the city's plan. And it'll be the framework for much of the work that goes on in all of the bureaus. And last but most importantly, I want to thank my staff. As you all know, I'm going to leave this job in the fall.
 And it's a hard job to leave because of the amazing staff, creative, talented, hardworking, knowledgeable, credible, very tenacious. And it will be hard to leave.
 I do want to thank eight or ten special people who worked specifically on the Central City Plan. First of all, the planning manager for all of this effort, Sally Edmonds, who often quietly and almost behind the scenes makes it all work, and then it just comes together. So I appreciate her. Rachel Hoy, Mindy Brooks, Troy Doss, Nicholas Starin.
 Mark Raggett, Debbie Bischoff, and Shannon Buono, and many others in my office and in the other offices around the city. And most importantly, I want to thank my colleague and friend, Joe Zender.
 Over the past nine years, when we started working together, when we created the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Joe and I, and Eric, and Deborah, and Michael Armstrong, we've all really kind of mentored each other. We brought very different skills to the table and a lot of different knowledge, and I think this plan really reflects that. Yeah.
 Great results. So I'd like you all, if you would, to give my staff a round of applause. Absolutely. And can I just also acknowledge that anybody that has been watching this
 the formal side of our process, which is council hearings and seeing all the technical things that we deal with on a regular basis. Anyone watching that would think that that's a full-time job for the staff that you've just identified. But I also want to acknowledge that each of us on this panel have different levels of experience and understanding of the very complicated issues that we've been dealing with, which means...
 We have all been getting briefings in addition to these council proceedings. We've been getting briefings in our offices from key staff people at every juncture of the way. I'd hate to add up all the time that that has consumed of your staff.
 But it has allowed us to participate more deeply in this process and hopefully more thoughtfully. So I just also want to add my thanks for all the extra work that your team does in getting us up to speed on these issues so that we have these what I think have been pretty high-functioning council proceedings.
 Thank you. It's time to get this done, so back to the mayor and Sally. Well, thank you again, Susan, and thank you for your incredible leadership. And, of course, congratulations to you and your team, and we look forward to continuing to hear great things from you in the future, of course. So now we'll move on to the business of the day. Sally, do you want to go ahead and introduce today's session, please? Thank you.
 Yes, thank you very much. So as Susan said, we're taking the final steps to prepare for our June 6th vote. I want to point out that the Central City 2035 record is in the room, and I think it's probably upstairs there. There's 25 boxes or so.
 So I want to direct your attention to a revised memo that I believe Carla just distributed to you. There's a couple of things that we've added to that, so we'll want to take a look at that. In particular, there's a new amendment on page five, and then we revised a map to put the names of the streets were not properly named. So that's in there, too.
 So since we saw you last in April, we've been preparing a set of revised recommended drafts based on the actions that you took at our many meetings.
 And so much of what you'll do today is to move, second, and vote on amended and substitute ordinances, resolutions, and exhibits. We also split the main ordinance into two parts to allow Commissioner Salzman to vote on the main ordinance, and so he wouldn't have to vote on – he could recuse himself from the replace ordinance.
 But as we prepared the final package, we did identify a few things that need changing. So we have a few minor amendments that are in the memo that I just distributed today.
 So, and also since last time we met, Commissioner Saltzman developed one final major amendment that he'd like council to consider. So we'll get to that a little bit later. So then on June 6th, you'll take the final vote. We had also planned to have you adopt some administrative rules right after your final vote. But since the rules are so technical and detailed,
 such as which bird safe fritting pattern might be acceptable, we found another path forward and added a directive to the main ordinance to provide BPS with the authority to adopt administrative rules for both bird safe and low carbon.
 And we'll begin that process as soon as Council takes its final vote. And we'll report back to Council staff with the results there. Very good. So this makes a lot of sense. And thank you for saving us for having to take up a detailed and lengthy debate on window fritting patterns. And I also want to acknowledge the work that Bureau of Environmental Services did with the Audubon Society to produce
 produce a draft of what I believe to be the first ever, first bird safe administrative rule of its kind in the entire country. And so that's something. That's our understanding, yeah. And so that is buried in here as well, and I want to acknowledge that. So, okay, the first item of business is on 526. May I just have one question? Sally, we're not taking testimony today? That's correct. So when...
 When you identify something we're going to vote on as a minor or technical amendment or amendment package, what we can assume, at least with respect to these issues, is that we've not received any comments
 commentary from the public that's opposed to the action we're taking. Is that fair? That's correct. These are truly errors that we found. For example, in one case, we found that you had adopted an additional map that you didn't need to adopt, so we're removing that map.
 A couple of other cases, there were a few missing words that were in an earlier draft and were not carried over into. Okay. Yeah. That's helpful. Thank you. Very good. First item of business is on item 526. That's to accept the substitute main central city 2035 ordinance. I move to accept the substitute main central city 2035 ordinance. Second. Second.
 And all the associated exhibits as described in Attachment B on the May 24th BPS Memorandum. I have a second from Commissioner Fish. Is there any further discussion on these items? There being none, Carla, could you please call the roll on the vote to accept the substitute ordinance and exhibits? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Thank you.
 substitute ordinance and exhibits are approved. Next up are additional amendments to the substitute main ordinance on item 526. Rachel, do you want to get us started? Yes. Rachel's not here at the moment. So as I said, next we have a few minor and technical amendments that we found through the course of preparing the draft and think you could move as a package. If there are any you'd like to know more about, we would be happy to go over them.
 I move them as a package. Second. Okay, we have a motion, and we have a second to approve the minor and technical amendments to the Substitute Maine Central City 2035 Ordinance. Is there any further discussion? There being none, Carla, could you please call the roll on the minor and the technical amendments? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Thanks again to staff and to Claire in my office for going through these with a fine-tooth comb. Aye.
 Wiener. Aye. Motion carries. Next, we have a major amendment to the amended substitute ordinance for item 526. Commissioner Saltzman, I believe this is your amendment. Do you have a motion to make? Yes, I do. I move to adopt the new Chinatown-Japantown amendment as written in Attachment A, Part 2 of the MAP-24 BPS memo. And this amendment...
 increases the bonus height on the western half of block 33 to 200 feet. The base height remains at 125 feet for the full block. The affordable housing bonus is required to be used if the bonus height is used. It also increases the base floor area ratio to 9 to 1 on the full block if all floors above the ground floor on the western one half of the block are in a residential use. This amendment also increases the base height...
 on the four northern blocks of the new Chinatown-Japantown historic district to 200 feet, which is still a reduction to height on these blocks that exist today. And I'm offering these amendments because I do believe, as whenever I offered it before, that the couple things, one is that what sways me to go from 160 to 200 feet is the extra affordable housing that we will get on Block 33.
 And finally, I just believe we need to infuse Old Town Japantown with activity, and there is none there now. We need people that live there as well as work there.
 And it needs help. And I believe these amendments will do that. So I will second this. I was persuaded the last time. I like the fact that this not only includes Block 33 but also blocks to the north for consistency. It addresses the height, the FAR, and the need for housing. I presume there will be discussion on this item. I'd like to discuss. Commissioner Fritz. So I've –
 Thank you to everybody who came here today. Commissioner Daly, you can't see there's more than a dozen people here who have signs saying things like quality for old town, BPS got it right, 160 is the max, keep the sun shining on Lansu Garden, shade, preserve our history. The one that speaks to me most is another albina, question mark, exclamation mark. And I think this is a serious mistake that is going to...
 repeat the mistakes that previous councils made in albina destroying a historic district and destroying a cultural district this is the only cultural district the historic district that is specific to cultural communities in portland it's this fact this amendment is opposed by the old
 are greatly concerned about the impact on the Lanzhou Chinese Garden, which was developed by the city, is one of the main assets in the city. And this proposal is going to completely shade and destroy the atmosphere around it. It also will take out half of the historic district. Half of the historic district. It's a small historic district to start off with. It's now going to be just four blocks. And that isn't viable. I'd like to read...
 because it reflects what I think, that this is an input from Terry Chung, the Portland Chinatown History Foundation Board Chair and past chair of the Old Town Community Association. The new proposal to rezone four blocks of the district is no longer a death of the district by 1,000 cuts, but is now taking the sword and cutting the body in half. When it was presented by the developer that Block 33's increase in heights would not endanger the historic district...
 What will the removal of four of the eight blocks in the district do, if not lead to a delist of the historic status of the district? The removal of Portland's only recognized cultural district is a blow to the historic significance that Portland's ethnic minorities have played in the establishment of cultural enclaves in the city of Portland.
 We have lost the original Italian neighbourhood, the Greek neighbourhood, the African-American enclaves, the Jewish and the German and the white Russian enclaves. What would be left to make Portland unique? What is it that tourists will want to see when they visit a new city? Not more high-rises or shopping places that replicate what is at home.
 Portland needs to create a unique brand for itself based on its historic diversity. Please maintain the historical presence of the Chinese and Japanese within this cultural boundary. To that end, there now exists within and close to this proximity the Lansu Chinese Gardens, the Oregon Jewish Museum, the Nikkei Legacy Center, the Japanese, a new Portland Chinatown Museum scheduled to open June 7th,
 Naito Parkway and the Memorial Plaza within the cherry-bottom trees. Why does the city not help and encourage the addition of more historical cultural sites within this district? The African American community would like a site, encourage the Greek community to have a site. It could easily become a tourist magnet center with the city helping the development of more sites by offering incentives, cultural grants, seismic credits, landmark preservation grants, development grants.
 Within five years, Portland could be drawing tens of thousands of additional tourists and their new dollars for businesses. Please think historic and cultural progress for Portland. This amendment put forward has no guarantee as to what will be developed. Gentrification is what is being promised, but at the expense of the cultural and historical perspective of its residents. And I also want to read some of what Lisa James, the executive director of the Lansu Chinese Garden, which is owned by the City of Portland.
 I'm writing to you today as your partner, your operator and your advocate for the Lanzhou Chinese Garden. This garden is more than a tourist attraction that you own. It is a friendship garden with Suzhou, China, and a statement of historical recognition for the discrimination and inequities suffered by Chinese immigrants in a century in Old Town Chinatown. Why weren't we notified of the amendment today that would add four city blocks to get another height increase for Block 33?
 These walls of 200-foot towers directly across the street on the west of the garden will undeniably have a detrimental impact on our long-term viability and on our legitimate biological collection. This rushed spot zoning is disingenuous to all of the community planning that went into the design guidelines recently approved by council, which, by the way, cost us $175,000 to develop the design guidelines.
 We entertain visitors from Seattle, Missouri, Texas, and anywhere else that has been striving for more than a decade to build something compatible. Tomorrow, we entertain visitors again from the famous Huntington Botanical Gardens and Library in Pasadena, who are hiring our Shuzo designers and builders to build something similar.
 The National Arboretum has worked for more than a decade to build what we have, but this and its care and maintenance are issues for another discussion on another day. Daily, we have been trying to work with the developers. We, above possibly anyone else, want a thoughtful process to redevelop the neighbourhood, and we are currently poised to participate on a grand scale to address more than decades of planning for a needed world-class cultural and heritage centre.
 We have endeavoured not only to meet and exceed the expectations of us as your partner and operator, but to assume your responsibilities for major capital repairs, because we are dedicated to such a high degree to the preservation and mission of Lansu. We hope you will rethink this rushed process. And then finally, I want to read from Helen Ying, the chair of the Old Town Chinatown Association.
 At this time, we cannot support the blanket amendment for the four northern blocks of New Chinatown-Japantown Historic District that was proposed this Thursday. We have had no opportunity to discuss the merits or concerns of these amendments. We have not learned of any planning developments in the other blocks being considered and have not had the opportunity to examine the impacts of the additional height on those blocks in the neighbourhood.
 We have a very unique neighbourhood with respect to cultural and historical aspects. Therefore, we do not subscribe to the fairness premise discussed by Council and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. In this district, each block should be evaluated uniquely with careful consideration of these matters.
 of most impact is any impact on the Lansu Garden, the protection of which may not be adequately addressed in the current or proposed zoning code. Therefore, our support for the height and density increase is only for Block 33 at this time. Now, knowing that three of the Council have decided to approve this, I looked into can we do something in the zoning code to protect the Lansu China Garden, and I believe the answer is no.
 When we're talking about affordable housing, we're going to get affordable housing if there is residential development anyway. And what Old Town Chinatown Community Association has been on record is saying that they don't need more affordable housing. They need more market-raised housing and people coming to live there with a diversity of income.
 This change is against policies which we've just adopted in the Comprehensive Plan and Central City Plan. Policy 4.48 encourages development that fills in vacant and underutilized gaps within the established urban factory, while preserving and complementing historic resources. Thank you.
 And Policy 4.49 says refine base zoning in historic districts to take into account the character of the historic districts and the historic resources in the district. This amendment is in direct conflict with these policies. If the district's northern blocks are given 200 feet high
 it would create an incentive for demolition of smaller contributing properties in the 10-block New Town Town, Japan Town Historic District and would put the district at risk for being delisted when these contributing properties are gone.
 We have heard from historic preservation advocates and members of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association that increasing the height on 40% of the district, 50% with Block 33, without any consultation with the district is unacceptable. And we will be putting at risk the health and success of Lansu Chinese Garden.
 The property on block 26 to the west of the garden is not subject to the shadow study standard that is intending to ensure that parks and open spaces are not negatively impacted by reducing access to light and warmth. Block 26 is not subject to the shadow study standard as it is not eligible for bonus height.
 And to that end, and actually it's even beyond that with the increase in the floor area ratio, there can be unlimited transfer floor area ratio from the historic properties, which I believe will happen under this amendment. So colleagues, let's not do another albina. Let's not rush into something because...
 certain developers have asked us to, why don't we see whether it works to increase the 130, which was the compromise, and now it's being asked to compromise from the compromise, and come back if we don't get the kind of development we want. May I have a fish or fish? Yeah, thank you. Thank you.
 Folks, just as a reminder, the council rules, let's just let everybody speak. Thumbs up if you like something, thumbs down if you don't like something. It just helps us keep the flow going. Commissioner Fish, then Commissioner Udaly. Mayor, I have three questions, and I don't know whether they're directed to staff or to the sponsor, but having – Joe, are you going to join us? Sure.
 Joe Zender? Yes, sorry. Are you going to join us for a second? Because I have three questions. We're troubleshooting here. Sorry. Yeah, so I have three questions, and I don't know whether they're appropriately directed to you or to the sponsor. But I'll pose the question and ask either of you to respond to it. Like Commissioner Fritz, I've received a fair amount of correspondence, mostly in the form of e-mails and letters, from people raising significant principled objections to this amendment. Okay.
 First question I want to ask is, do we have anything in the record currently from any community organization, any of our advisory bodies, or anyone in the community that supports this amendment? The amendment for the change of height north of Everett, I'm not sure that we have testimony in support of that. Okay. Okay.
 The second question that I want to raise...
 addressing the concerns of one property owner at Block 26. And I'll refer to that as the Menashe property because Mr. Menashe was the owner and potential developer who felt most aggrieved by a decision we made to reduce the height limit on his property from over 300 feet to 160 feet. And we had some extensive discussions.
 conversations as a council about whether 160 feet was the proper limit or not. My recollection is, despite Mr. Menasche's pleas and his lawyer's pleas, the council finally agreed that 160 feet should be the height limit on his property. Is that correct? Correct.
 Joe, would you remind me, what was the principal reason why? Mr. Menashe is obviously in a different position than the developer in Block 33 because here we're contemplating increasing the height. In his instance, in his case, he was faced with a significant reduction in the allowed height for his property.
 What was the principal reason that we settled on 160 feet at Block 26? It was based on the height of the existing structure just to the west of this block. So already in this district that could get up to 425, I believe, with bonus, there was an existing tower of 160 feet.
 So even though the historic district is adopted, I believe, after the 160-foot towers built. So the datum, the ceiling has already been set there. If we're going to try to bring the heights down to something closer to...
 what the heights should be rather than the 425 that predates the historic district, we use that existing precedent to set the bar. Part of what we're thinking is if the precedent really now is what we're proposing to see done on Block 33,
 we would just apply that. That's the new ceiling. There's no particular science to that. Okay. And I guess prior to this hearing, my assumption was if you raise the height – and I think it was the assumption of most of my colleagues after the last hearing – that if you made an adjustment on Block 33 –
 we'd have to, in all fairness, make an adjustment on Block 26. How did that grow to the four northern blocks? Why has this expanded to cover more space? You know, one of the principles that we try to build into this kind of allowance decision is treating properties in like situations in a like way.
 So making the distinction between the other three blocks or four blocks in that area compared to this one, the Menashe block was what we're calling it, we didn't see a clear case. One could make a policy case for that distinction. We chose to apply it to treat all like blocks in the same way. Okay. And my final question is probably, it may be to the mayor, is,
 You know, I was the author of the amendment that now requires that in order to access any bonus, height bonus, the developer must use inclusionary housing. So whatever we decide today, there is now baked into what we've decided a requirement that the height is linked to inclusionary housing. I think that is – On Block 33, that's true. On Block 33. But not on the other locations? No.
 On the other locations, it would be base height. So it would not be subject to a bonus? It would be subject. Well, they have nine-to-one floor area, Commissioner, to get to what it would take to build to that height. They're going to need extra floor area. So they do have access, I believe, to the inclusionary housing bonus. They just don't get bonus height. They have base height. So I guess the question that I would ask of the sponsors is,
 Now that we've settled the question that additional height is subject to inclusionary housing, I guess we can argue about whether there are some additional units to be gained between 160 and 200 feet. But I understood the bigger concern coming out of the last hearing was whether 160 feet and the terms we established were sufficient to generate development at that site. Okay.
 And I guess my question is, has the developer informed anyone on council that the current zoning for that site would not be feasible for development? Commissioner Saltzman has said that this change could potentially give us additional housing. I care deeply about housing, and I was the author of the amendment. But what I understood the last time we had this discussion, and this is beginning to feel like Groundhog Day,
 was that the concern was whether it would be economically viable to develop this site under the terms we set. And my question is, has the developer notified the city that it would not be feasible to develop under the existing zoning? So I will answer that question for my part. I have not had such a conversation with the developer, but that's not my reason for voting for this. And I'm listening to the conversation, and I'm still persuaded –
 You mentioned the difference between, and we were talking about a 40-foot difference here. We were talking about a practical decrease in the existing heights to the north. And let's not forget what Block 33 is and has been for decades. It's a surface parking lot. This city went to Salem, along with others, for the purpose of declaring surface parking lots to be defined as blight.
 and therefore something that is not desirable. And so we have waited for decades for there to be development on this site, and we have not seen it. We are now near the end of the development cycle. That is broadly accepted. I believe with 200 feet, based on what I understand to be the process, and I'm going to ask a few follow-up questions in a moment, there is not a substantial difference in terms of impact there,
 yet there is potentially a significant difference in terms of affordable housing opportunities, as well as housing generally in this area where currently people could build higher to the north and there is nothing built on Block 33. So I want to go through a couple of these because Commissioner Fritz made some very compelling statements and she read what I thought was some really thoughtful and detailed testimony
 But I don't buy a lot of it, and so I guess I want to ask a couple of questions. Could you tell us what the process is if a developer decides they want to develop, let's say, on Block 33? What is the process they go through with regard to historic district, with regard to shading, with regard to land sue and its impact, things like that?
 Well, on Block 33, what is intended is that it's in the historic district. So it would go through Landmarks Commission review that would review the proposed building in light of both the allowances on the site and the historic district guidelines that were recently adopted and developed and adopted as part of this project.
 So that's the process it goes through. It's a type three, I believe. So could I, and sorry to interrupt, Joe, but I want to jump to the punch here. If the Historic Landmarks Commission decided that what was being proposed would jeopardize the historic district, wouldn't that be an opportunity for them to intervene? The Landmarks Commission indeed could determine that the plan as submitted is not acceptable, and then it would be appealed. Tell me about shade.
 Particularly on Lansu. We all love Lansu. I was engaged at Lansu. Okay, so Lansu is the Menashe. Yeah, sorry, me. Lansu would be affected by the Menashe building, not Block 33. And we have a height...
 or a shade study requirement that defines certain days of the year where you have to model the design and massing of the building and demonstrate whether or not a certain percent of the affected parcel, the park, is in shade.
 I don't know the exact times and dates, but staff does. Well, the council is very familiar with that because we just waived that on the Fremont Apartments. So there's absolutely no guarantee that that would protect Lansu. Is there anything we would be voting on that would change that requirement with regard to shading? Not the ability not to. The appeal, if it did not meet...
 the standard. But the standard could be modified or adjusted, right? Currently, the standard could be modified or adjusted. We could do that regardless. It could be modified or adjusted, or it could be chosen not to be modified or adjusted, and then it would be kicked back to City Council. Thank you. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you. Yeah, I'm not buying many of these arguments either. First of all, I just have to say the...
 Raising the specter of Albina in this conversation is absurd. Albina was a thriving business and residential community, predominantly African-American, which was decimated by urban renewal and a manual hospital and the freeway and the coliseum.
 Our Chinatown Historic District, unfortunately, is not a thriving business or residential area for anyone. And businesses are struggling, and they can certainly use more housing. Secondly, I would think that anyone who's remotely familiar with my position on housing would never think that
 that the argument that we don't need affordable housing would fly with me. I frankly find that offensive. Market rate housing is affordable to people earning 120% or more of median income.
 And when we're talking about affordable housing in regards to inclusionary zoning, we're talking about housing that's affordable to people at 60 and 80 percent of MFI, median family income. And those are many people who do vital work in our city and are not somehow less desirable neighbors than those that can afford market-rate rents.
 Since we're reading letters, I'm going to read a letter from John Tuck from the Heritage Consulting Group. Dear Mayors and Mayors and Commissioners,
 I welcome the opportunity to comment regarding the proposal to modify the height limit on Block 33. As many of you know, my company, Heritage Consulting Group, is a national leader in cultural resource evaluation and particularly in securing rehabilitation tax credits in the redevelopment of historic buildings. We count among our clients individuals, local and national developers, affordable housing agencies, as well as local, state, and federal governments.
 I FOUNDED HERITAGE IN 1982. FOR MANY YEARS MY OFFICE WAS IN THE MERCHANT HOTEL IN OLD TOWN. I WAS FORTUNATE TO COUNT BILL NADO AND BING SHELDON AS PERSONAL FRIENDS AND HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN MOST MAJOR REHABILITATION PROJECTS IN PORTLAND. FROM CITY HALL TO THE MULTNOMAH HOTEL, FROM THE BENSON HOUSE TO MONTGOMERY PARK. IN TOTAL WE EVALUATED THOUSANDS OF BUILDINGS AND HAVE LISTED OVER 350 PROPERTIES ON THE NATIONAL REGISTER.
 The discussion before you is an interesting one. The first aspect I would like to comment on is the question of a National Register district being delisted. The menace of delisting is put out there every time there is a major change proposed in a historic district. You will recall that the same people today saying the district will be delisted said the same thing in the dirty debt discussion in 2010.
 To the best of my knowledge, no National Register district in the country has ever been delisted. Though rare, there have been individual properties removed from the National Register. The only automatic removals are those situations where the building is moved or the entire resource is destroyed. I don't think a surface parking lot counts as a historic resource. That's coming from me, not Mr. Taft.
 The process to delist is the reverse of the listing process. Someone would need to proactively prepare a nomination that explained why the district no longer warrants historic desertations. That nomination would be reviewed and commented on by the Portland Landmarks Commission, by the Oregon State Historic Preservation Office, and the Oregon State Advisory Committee. It would be unheralded for the National Park Service, the State Historic Preservation Office, or the National Trust to undertake such an effort.
 I also want to remind you that the district was listed for its association with the Japanese and Chinese communities in the city. Unlike an architectural resource, a National Register typically has greater flexibility when a site is important for its associative value. Thus, when the 16-story, 160-foot Pacific Tower apartment was built in 2003, neither the State Historic Preservation Office
 NOR NATIONAL PARK SERVICE FELT COMPELLED TO QUESTION THE COMPELLED TO QUESTION THE COMPELLED TO QUESTION THE INTEGRITY OR VIABILITY OF THE INTEGRITY OR VIABILITY OF THE INTEGRITY OR VIABILITY OF THE DISTRICT. DISTRICT. DISTRICT. I CAN COMFORTABLY SAY THAT I I CAN COMFORTABLY SAY THAT I I CAN COMFORTABLY SAY THAT I HAVE NEVER HEARD ANYONE HAVE NEVER HEARD ANYONE HAVE NEVER HEARD ANYONE DENIGRATE THE HISTORIC VALUE OF DENIGRATE THE HISTORIC VALUE OF DENIGRATE THE HISTORIC VALUE OF THIS DISTRICT BECAUSE OF THIS DISTRIC
 I just want to be fair note that the property was a surface parking lot at the time the district was created and has remained so for the past three decades. I think there's general agreement that developing block 33 would be preferable to leaving it as a surface parking lot. There have been a number of development concepts explored, but none have come to fruition. To me, the reality is that the development cycle that the city has enjoyed for the past decade is trending down.
 and that this cycle has a near-term end. Put another way, I believe this proposal is the best opportunity for this generation to see this site transformed from surface parking. Finally, specific to the question of height, I would ask you to think specifically about how the district and neighborhood would be damaged by additional floors. Looking specifically at Pacific Towers, would the district be any different if the tower was taller or shorter by a few floors? To me, the impact is hard to actually distinguish.
 Rather, the more important issue, as discussed in the new design guidelines, is how this project connects to the surrounding streetscape. I do believe that in granting the benefits, the City should establish a higher bar in terms of lower-level materials and design, integrating specifically with the district and surrounding buildings. This project should not be an alternative architectural statement, but should integrate and support the heritage and built environment of the district.
 In conclusion, the fundamental question is whether the district and surrounding areas will benefit more or less by this project. It has been suggested that the height would be injurious. Pacific Tower tells me that is not so. It has also been said that the district has suffered and continues to suffer from economic challenges.
 Transforming the surface parking lot into apartments and commercial use will substantially build the critical mass necessary for a viable retail environment, building demand for the surrounding properties and making the district more valuable. To me, the added height does no damage to the district, but makes the project viable and enlarges the critical mass to make this once thriving neighborhood successful again. Sincerely, John Peff. So really what remains for me, because we know that
 any development on these properties will go through Landmark Commission and will very likely be appealed and come to us eventually, is the question about the Land Sue Garden. And I've been assured by CPS staff that we can prevent any impact to the garden. That is absolutely my only consideration. I find it hard to believe, as it's been suggested, that future councils would sacrifice...
 A VALUABLE PROPERTY AND CULTURAL GIFTS TO THE CITY BY MAKING EXCEPTIONS TO OUR SHADOW STANDARDS, WHICH UNLIKE THE SITUATION WITH FREEMONT APARTMENTS COULD TRULY HARM THAT AREA IN THE GARDEN. SO I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR FROM STAFF. I GUESS A STRONGER REASSURANCE THAT THE CONCERNS WE'RE HEARING RAISED ABOUT THE GARDEN ARE
 are not a credible threat. So to paraphrase the question, is the allowing of taller buildings on these blocks in the context of having to do a shadow analysis sufficient protection for the garden? Sure, that sounds good. Okay. Well, the...
 Shadow study would set a standard that the building would be designed, have to be designed to meet unless that standard is modified through the, in this case, I guess it would be the landmarks review process or at city council on appeal. But what this does is.
 is we haven't done extensive analysis to know that it's impossible at these heights to design a building that can meet this standard. That's part of how the shadow analysis and these standards work. It could have problems getting through. So let's just focus on the shadow analysis.
 If it needs a modification, landmarks could allow that if they found that it was an acceptable impact and was mitigated in a way that met the purposes of the shadow study requirement.
 And if it then got appealed to City Council, that decision and evaluation would be put in front of City Council to do. And you all could find, yes, it is an adequate mitigation or acceptable impact, or that no, it's not. We just haven't really designed all the permutations of what these kind of height limits would allow on that site to do that.
 And, you know, the other part of this is that we were always operating from a context in which before we started the Central City 2035, the allowances on these blocks was significantly taller than 160 or 200. So we were sort of counting on a version of this tool and this analysis to make the situation right anyway.
 And that's something I think that needs to be made clear to the public over and over again. We're actually significantly reducing the height on most of these blocks. And even with the increased height, they were not redeveloped. I think it's also fair to say that even if we do grant 200 feet to block I think it's also fair to say that even if we do grant 200 feet to block
 is it 26, the Menashe building, they may not be able to fully realize that type. It might just not be possible to build that tall and comply with whatever the findings are through the shadow analysis. So I think that satisfies the remaining questions I have. I'm sorry to hear that the association no longer –
 support this. They did support the increase on Block 33 and I understand that they are concerned about the garden and concerned about the historic integrity of the district and I certainly respect that. I do not, however, have not found compelling evidence that those concerns are warranted. Very good. Any further discussion? Commissioner Fretz? Yeah, I have a question for Joe. Um,
 The height would be 200 feet by right. Would the shadow study even be required? That's what the scurrying around right now that staff is doing is concerning. I'm going to offer a technical amendment. Right. We have a technical amendment to make it clear that it would apply to Bayside.
 Okay. Commissioner Daly, thank you for reading that letter. That obviously just addressed Block 33, and the four blocks that are additional all have contributing historic resources on them. So that's much more significant. That's half of the district. Commissioner Saltzman, I'm wondering if it might be worth spitting out your amendment and doing Block 33 as one amendment and then the other four blocks as a second one.
 which would then comport with what Old Town Chinatown Community Association is asking us and also allow more time for the study of what the impact might be? My original interest was in Block 33, but I've been persuaded sort of by the, I guess, the equity arguments around the other three blocks that has been made by staff. And I think the feelings on others, including yourself, about spot zoning being a bad thing. So this seems to be the right balance, in my opinion. Called the roll.
 We've been at this for a long time, and it's only appropriate that we conclude this process with a little drama. I want to thank everybody that took time to reach out to our offices and to express your concerns. I can't identify everybody in this room or who sent a communication, but I particularly appreciated hearing from the Historic Landmarks Commission, from Restore Oregon, from the Community Association,
 and from people in the neighborhood who have spent a lifetime working to preserve the cultural history of this section of our city. I believe we're making a mistake today in adopting this amendment, and I can't support it. I have a number of reasons, but I've made clear previously when this came up, and we've had multiple discussions about this particular block, that I thought 160 feet –
 was the limit. And at one point, that was actually an amendment of one of my colleagues, and I was persuaded that that was the right compromise. Now, I acknowledge that reasonable people can agree or disagree on any of these issues, but I have found the concerns raised by the community compelling. I have not felt that there was much community support for the amendment. I am a little bit taken aback that in the name of equity at the 11th hour, we're extending it
 to other portions of the district without really doing any analysis or having much of a conversation. I think that's unfortunate. I guess for me there's two categories of concerns. One is what I've heard from key stakeholders about issues of history and process and equity and fairness. And those are very important principles. Each of us are going to make our own judgments about how they apply to any issue before us. But I found...
 In the totality, those concerns compelling. And while I appreciate the exchange I had with Joe Zender, who spends a lot of time coaching me on the basics of land use and zoning, I still, frankly, cannot reconcile the way this council approached Block 26 and then Block 33. And I thought the council was...
 very clear about why they thought 160 feet was appropriate at Block 26. And after all, Mr. Menasche came into this process at the beginning. He had a lawyer advocating for him throughout. He had a, I thought, particularly compelling claim since he had owned the property for a long time with a height that was well above where we landed. And yet this council felt that 160 feet under those circumstances was appropriate.
 This is not even an 11th hour appeal to the council, completely reversed equities, no promise of any future development. The only thing we know for sure is that through this action, this land is going to become substantially more valuable with no promise of any future development. I can't square the two. And because of the limited amount of time we have to evaluate this, I have to go on my instinct, and my instinct says we're making a mistake here.
 While I am very pleased and grateful that this council has made clear that whatever our decision, any future height increases will be linked to a bonus for affordable housing, and I think that was very important. And frankly, I compliment staff for having crafted that mechanism because we essentially imported something that didn't really apply to a historic district from outside the district. And so regardless of the outcome of this vote,
 We have ensured that there will be some affordable housing. I cannot support this amendment, and therefore I vote no. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? So we really don't have consensus in the neighborhood with the residents, the community members, the businesses, and even advocates for historic preservation are not in agreement on this item. So it's been a tough job to sort through these.
 sort through these issues. And we've spent many hours reading all the testimony, listening to staff and subject matters and members of the community. And to be clear, there are many people, in particular business owners in that neighborhood that are desperate for change to come in order for it to become a more viable place to live and do business. Yeah.
 As I said before, my two primary concerns are the integrity of the historic district status, which is not necessarily at risk, and because any future developments will have to go through landmarks, I feel moderately comfortable with.
 and any impact on the garden, which I think we all agree we're committed to avoiding. And that may mean the developer doesn't get to take advantage of the full height that we're extending. I think what we have to consider today is what does the city need? And the city needs more housing. And the city needs more vibrant neighborhoods in Chinatown, Old Town.
 And the businesses need more people on the streets. So I think, yeah, that's it. I vote aye. Fritz. This is a really sad day. And I'm sorry. Thank you for those of you who came representing the Chinese-Japanese communities. Thank you for those who came for the Lanzhou Chinese Garden. We know what we're doing here. We're destroying the district.
 half of the district will be gone. And the developers would not have asked for the increased height if they did not plan to demolish the existing buildings. So four contributing buildings will be gone. And four or five blocks does not make a historic district. There's no support. I have heard no support from the community for the additional four blocks.
 We're supposed to be doing truth in zoning, where people should be able to expect that they can develop something like what the zoning code allows for them to do. And that was one of the reasons that we reduced the height, because the Historic Landmarks Commission told us that it was almost impossible, in fact impossible, to develop at the heights that were previously allowed.
 So that this whole central city plan and the comprehensive plan have been looking at, let's be reasonable in our expectations and that people could reasonably be able to develop in a compatible manner at 200 feet or whatever it's set at.
 There was a proposal to develop on block 33 at 125 feet, which was just waiting for this central city plan to be adopted because the previous height limit was 100. And that proposal, that was all that was necessary. Now suddenly, not only is 125 not big enough, 160 is not big enough, 200 is not big enough. And that insult to injury literally...
 We're destroying the district. And I'm really sorry. Thank you for testifying. Thank you for being here. No. Wheeler. I actually think we're doing the opposite. I think we're vitalizing the district. I want to remind us what we're talking about. We're talking about lowering the height from existing height in part of it.
 And in the other part, we're talking about a surface parking lot that has been a surface parking lot for many decades and that the city has been trying to have developed throughout that time, having declared it blight.
 There are plenty of checks and balances in this process. I've heard lots of prognostications today about how this ruins the district, how this will lead to demolition. How does lowering the height actually further encourage the demolition of a building when the heights are actually being lowered over existing height requirements?
 We have heard that there is a check and a balance in terms of the shade, and I'm in a few minutes going to offer a technical amendment that will make that crystal clear. Third, the historic district will still have the responsibility to weigh in, and there will still be a public process, and that's the fact. So I actually am proud to support this amendment. I vote aye. The amendment's adopted.
 Now that we've made that decision, I understand that we need to substitute a new Exhibit A to the Substitute Main Ordinance on Item 526 to replace the one that we just accepted. Carla, will you please distribute the new version of Substitute Exhibit A, Findings Report? And then, colleagues, I'm going to suggest we vote on this and then take a 10-minute break. Thank you.
 Mayor, could you tell us what this is? What the heck is this? I will let staff do that. Sally is eager to tell you all about it. Yes. One moment. Thank you.
 Is this just everything we voted on? What you have before you is a replacement package of the findings for the Central City Plan. And because you just made the decision that you just made, we need to update the findings package to support the decision that you just made. So the packet you have replaces the packet that was filed with the clerk's office earlier. So may I ask the legal counsel a question?
 Because I want to make sure I get this right. The vote to adopt the amendment was 3-2. Now we have this document, which includes the findings from that and apparently other things. Is this now pro forma? I mean, even though I dissented on the amendment, is this now just a technical issue of adopting the findings and so it should just be voted on? No.
 Well, I won't presume to tell you how to vote, but I will tell you that in order to defend Council's decision, which was the decision to adopt those amendments, these findings are necessary to support that decision. So, yes. Okay. And does it extend beyond the amendment we just adopted? Does it have the minor amendments and the major amendment? The findings report that you have before you addresses all of the decisions that you made over the last number of months. And –
 Include things any member of council may have agreed with or disagreed with. That's correct. This is what passed council. That's correct. And so we filed a packet with the clerk's office last week that included, that supported everything you had made so far. You've made some additional decisions today. Okay. So you need to adopt this replacement. Okay. Thank you.
 Very good. I move to substitute and accept this version of Exhibit A, the findings report, to replace the version that Council accepted earlier today. Do I have a second? Second. Any discussion?
 Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? This just excuses and has things in it which is completely not true, that testimony was received for and against the increased height, and that it is in compliance with Policy 4.47 and 4.48, which I read out before. No. Wheeler? Aye. The motion carries. I recommend we take a 10-minute break. We are in recess. We reconvene here.
 Very good. Welcome. So, colleagues, as I promised a few moments ago, I have a technical amendment number nine. It is a thick-looking packet, which you have all been provided.
 Rachel's going to give us a more technical explanation, but in short what it does is per the conversation we had earlier about the blocks in the north end of the district that we were discussing, this will ensure that those blocks are subject to a shadow study. Rachel, you probably want to give a better description than that.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. Rachel Hoy with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. This is an amendment that we found, bringing this forward to you. Just a little bit of background. In Central City 2035, we have applied the shadow study requirement to more open spaces and parks around the central city.
 and that is to have less shading on our parks. Today it applies mostly to the park blocks. We've added it across the whole west side of the river. And in doing that, the shadow study has always been tied to bonus height.
 Not every property in the central city is eligible for bonus height. So it was always our intent that this new shadow study requirement would apply to parks and open spaces that we have mapped through the central city 2035 process. So what this amendment does is it...
 the code here, and there's a lot more code than what's been changed. I've shaded the areas that actually have been changed. We have tied the shadow study requirement to our base height map, and the correction now applies to both base and bonus height.
 And the other thing that I would just like to add to that is that, while you have this section in front of you, base and bonus height, in general, base and bonus heights are not modifiable. The shadow study is a modifiable standard. So if I wanted to add, amend this to say adjustments and modifications to this standard are prohibited, where would I put that?
 So if you wanted to put that amendment forward specifically, it would be on page 3, letter D, at the end of that standard. So, colleagues, in order to be absolutely sure that future councils are not going to shade the Chinese Garden, I would move that we add to D on page 3. Adjustments and modifications to this standard are prohibited.
 Does the Bureau have any problems with that amendment? The standard would then, it would not be modifiable or adjustable. They would need to meet the standard at all of the parks across the central city. Not just the garden. Not just the garden. If that's, Commissioner Fritz, if that was the intent of your amendment. Can I make a suggestion? Sure.
 This has been a long week and two weeks, and I'm very loathe to sign on to something where I don't understand the full implications. It's one of the reasons why I actually voted against an amendment that was offered recently. And I just wonder, in the name of collegial functioning, we can find some way to make what appears to be a fairly routine change just to kick this to next week, and then we can have regular order.
 That's addressed to my colleagues, not the staff. I think from time to time we do push things forward, even if we have a disagreement with the matter, just to keep things on track. And I don't have the brainpower right now to sort out all the implications of this. It just seems like the matter before us is not a big deal.
 So it sounds good, but I'd like to know if there's implications either from the Bureau or Legal Counsel. No, no, I'm suggesting that we keep it clean and not put a prohibition against any amendments or adjustments because I don't know what that means and under what circumstances that could be triggered. Are you proposing just putting Commissioner Fritz's amendment to next week or the whole technical amendment package? I'm seeing if we can accept the technical amendment package without that amendment just so this matter goes to a second reading. I see.
 Commissioner Fritz? Can it be changed to the second reading? So this is moving to its next reading on June 6th. If it were amended on June 6th, then it would have to be pushed to a further reading which would push out the effective date. So at this point, it's June 6th so that it can become effective July 9th. The challenge, Commissioner, is that I've just received this right now. So I don't even know whether the base amendment is... So I may be completely missing this right now, but
 Do we have the option of setting this over until next week? Yes, we can. No, no, without changing, because it still gives us. Yeah, we have two weeks until June 6th. Right, that's what I was thinking. So if we set this over until next week to give Commissioner Fritz a chance to have her concerns addressed, and if she's satisfied, could we then vote on the amendment and still be on track to have the final vote on June 6th?
 That's a good suggestion. If there's a vote taken next week, yes. Mayor, may I suggest we put this on for time certain next week? Yeah, that's great. And the time certain, Carla, would be? It's at 1015. 1015? May 30th. Wednesday. 1015 a.m. Wednesday, May 30th. City Hall, be there. Technical Amendment 9 and any amendments. And perhaps we could even work those in.
 Commissioner, so that it's published, would you mind seconding my proposed amendment so we can discuss it? Happy to. Thank you. Very good. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz and a second. The amendment is on the table. Very good. Next up is a new ordinance to separate out River Place amendments. Commissioner, that's right.
 Next up is a new ordinance. Can you come back? You've got to come back in about 30 seconds. Next up is a new ordinance to separate out the River Place amendments from the substitute main ordinance we just accepted, so that Commissioner Saltzman can participate in the vote on the main ordinance, as people are aware he has recused himself from the discussions around River Place, but would like to participate in the discussions and the vote for the main ordinance.
 We've already heard testimony on these amendments at a number of previous hearings, barring any further discussion from council or staff. Excuse me, Mayor. Commissioner Udailey has requested to reconnect.
 Do I need to read the script again? We haven't adjourned the meeting, so I assume that's... You do not need to, but that certainly provides the opportunity to address the amendment issue with the map. So you may wish to do that, allow staff to do that. So this is with regard to River Place specifically? Correct. Because in the interest of collegiality, I think we've already put off technical amendment number nine and any amendments to next week, and I'd like to uphold that.
 commitment that we've made. Before I move this item to second reading on June 6th, there is a technical amendment that staff would like to present. And Commissioner Udaly, this pertains to River Place Item 527. Yes, Mayor. We have an amended Map 510-4, Map 3 of 3, that we need you to move and second. So moved. Second. And what's the change in the map? 0.
 One moment, please. Okay. I apologize. So this map reflects the shadow study technical amendment number nine. So what I would suggest you do is pass this to second reading next week on the 30th at 1015 along with the amendment. Okay. So now there are two amendments then. Is that correct? Okay. So very good. So addendum to the May 24th packet, technical amendment number nine.
 plus two amendments, one from Commissioner Fritz and one a technical amendment pertaining to the map from staff. Those will be moved to next Wednesday, May 30th, time certain 1015. Was that correct? Correct. 1015 a.m. Portland City Hall. So for clarity for Carla, that would be both items 526 and 527. Carla, what would we do without you? What would I do without them? I don't know. I don't know.
 What would you do without both of you? It's a virtuous circle of extreme intense knowledge. Very good. And so has this then included the map that you had requested with regard to River Place, or do we also need to put that on the table? That is the same map. Very good. Very good. So then item 527 passes to second reading, June 6th.
 May 30th at 1015. May 30th at 1015 as well. Thank you. Good. I'm going to just quietly move away from that one now.
 So, Item 528 is the Environmental and Scenic Ordinance for Areas Outside of the Central City. The reason that we have this ordinance is to clarify the process for managing vegetation to protect views.
 I move to accept the substitute ordinance and all associated exhibits described in Attachment B to the May 24th BPS memo. Do I have a second? We have a second from Commissioner Fish. I'm sorry, excuse me. Any discussion? Mayor Hales, there's no problem. It happens all the time. So I have a question, and that is I noticed some of the open scenic resources being added to park properties. Have these all been reviewed by the committee?
 pop stuff. Turn that mic on. Press the green button. Hi, Mindy Brooks with Planning and Sustainability. Yes, we've been in contact with Parks about it. In fact, they were one of the ones who initiated the request for the standard to be applied back to the Parks properties so they can better manage the vegetation. Thank you. Very good. Carla, can you call the roll? Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. So we've accepted substitute ordinance and amendments. The next item up is item 529. It's the actions urban design diagram and target resolution. We need to move and second the amended resolution and substitute exhibits. I'll move to amend the resolution and associated exhibits, as shown in the versions of these documents distributed to council and described in attachments B. Okay.
 to the May 24th BPS memo. Do I have a second? Second. We have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any discussion? Carla, could you please call the roll on this resolution and exhibits? Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Next up, item 530, the Green Loop Resolution. With this resolution, the City Council endorses moving forward with the Green Loop, one of the big ideas, in my opinion, in the Central City Plan.
 It's an initiative that will add to the central city network of great public spaces with formal and informal places to gather integrated into new developments like Broadway Corridor redevelopment of the old post office and the OMSI's redevelopment of its riverfront campus. It can become a recognized and attractive route connecting central city destinations and neighborhoods like the Park Blocks, the Portland Art Museum, PSU, the Central East Side, and the Moda Center.
 And it starts to become a reality in the Lloyd District with some of the first projects to be completed after the plan. We're going to hear next from a panel of representatives from city bureaus, private business, and a nonprofit who are going to be part of this. I'd like to welcome Susan Anderson, who we all know as the BPS director, Leah Treat. Of course, the PBOT, she is not here. She's being ably substituted in today. We appreciate it.
 Thanks, Art. Wade Lang, Vice President and Regional Manager for the American Assets Trust. And Jenny Taylor, the Administrative and Transit Program Manager for GoLloyd. Good afternoon. Thank you. Susan E. Eisen, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So now that the Central City Plan is almost adopted, we wanted to showcase one of the initiatives, and you'll begin to see things being brought forth to Council over the next year.
 few months that are represented in the Central City Plan and this is one of the first initiatives that we wanted to feature. It will tie the Central City together early on in the community process. There were many discussions about the idea of a pathway that could link all the disparate parts of the Central City together. It was called the Green Loop
 everything from starting over in the central east side at the south waterfront past PSU along the park blocks up to the post office over the Broadway bridge through the Lloyd district and then back down to the south back to the central east side
 And while the loop is about each of these individual places, it's also very much about what I call the spaces in between. These are the spaces, the green spaces, the businesses, the restaurants and stores that are along the route. We will create six miles of space.
 as a green ribbon that will weave through the central city for people to meander and walk and bike and shop and eat and work and play through some of the most urban and vibrant parts of the city. We've had many groups and organizations endorse the idea. They're very interested in the idea. Everyone from Travel Portland, PMCA, University of Oregon, PSU, Oregon Walks, American Society of Landscape Architects, Design Week Portland, and many others.
 both in the private and public sector. It's also really important to note that the Green Loop is not just about the central city. It's not just a central city initiative. The new comp plan calls for a citywide system of greenways. I should say the new comp plan that was effective today at 1 p.m.,
 It's a web, this whole system would be a web of loops and pathways to link neighborhoods, employment, parks and open spaces together. The idea is catching on. Lent's Green Ring is pushing forward. In fact, in a couple of weeks, city staff will join Green Lents on June 2nd for a community forum on the Lents Green Ring to nurture that vision.
 So today, as the mayor mentioned, we wanted to focus on a segment of the Green Loop where we think the first projects are likely to happen, and that's at the Rose Quarter and Lloyd District. There's already investments that are planned for that area, such as the Sullivan's Crossing Pedestrian and Bike Bridge across I-84. Potential partners such as Go Lloyd and the Albina Vision Trust and others make this a really strong candidate as a place to start.
 We have a few partners here today that want to provide their perspective, and then Art Pierce will talk a little bit about why this is important to PBOT. And he may touch on this, but just in case, the Green Loop, I wanted everyone to know, is going to be open on a trial basis for one day only on July 22nd, and that's when Sunday Parkways will weave through the central city on the future Green Loop route.
 I'll turn it over to Art and then our two members of the panel from the public. Thank you. Good afternoon. Art Pierce, Policy Planning and Projects Manager for PIVOT, standing in for Leah Treat.
 So we're very happy to support this resolution. PBOT, we've been supporters of the Green Loop as it contributes significantly to the use of our central city and encourage the use of our streets in particular for people, which is great. When completed, the Green Loop will be a significant thoroughfare for people walking and cycling to travel around the central city core. And importantly, it will provide a much more comfortable system to navigate than our existing infrastructure, which is a great benefit to families
 younger citizens and older folks. It's very also important as a city dedicated to Vision Zero, half of our high crash intersections are in the central city, so half of those intersections for people walking and biking. And
 And the Green Loop will emphasize those streets, in particular, making a very inviting route that can anchor around the districts of the central city. The Green Loop is also a major part of our Central City in Motion Plan, which is our investment strategy for streets in the central city that is underway. And the goals will be that making the entire system more navigable and consistent, making the central city a more inviting place than it is today.
 The Green Loop will get people out of their cars, help encourage them to walk, bike and stroll to those destinations throughout the central city, and acknowledge the place that our streets are for use for people. The Green Loop also is a very innovative approach to balancing the needs of our freight community and for people walking and cycling.
 In early conversations with stakeholders in the Central East Side, it became clear that the connections between the Tillicum Crossing and the recently funded Sullivan's Crossing over I-84 were going to be a key issue. And so we knew that we needed to work collaboratively with them, and we have done so. Partnering with the Central East Side Industrial Council, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, we've been studying in more detail the active transportation connections and how they will intersect with freight mobility in that Central East Side.
 One of the first solutions as part of the Green Loop is the Sullivan's Crossing, so we're very excited that we are continuing to proceed with engineering on the Sullivan's Crossing bridge over I-84. So we're very excited that that project continues to progress well, and I think that will be complemented well with the Clackamas Crossing bridge that will be implemented as part of the Rose Quarter I-5, I-84 project. So, yeah.
 And again, as Susan mentioned, we have a chance to experience at least a taste of what the green loop will look like in late July. And so we certainly invite council to come and participate that with us. Great. Yep. Pass it on to Wade Lang. Yep. Hi, I'm Wade Lang with American Assets Trust. Thanks for letting me speak today.
 uh... i've worked in the district for twenty one years now and i serve on the boards of goal all right loit enhance service district deloitte eco district the holiday park partnership portland streetcar among others
 All of those boards, all of those organizations have worked collectively together to really enhance the experience in Lloyd. And if you haven't been over there lately, Lloyd is really changing. It's becoming all the things that 21 years ago and longer that we've discussed. We're actually seeing a hotel go up that we started talking about decades ago.
 So we're excited about the changes. When I worked on the 2035 plan,
 a couple years ago, a few years ago now, talking about what Lloyd could become with the comprehensive plan and talking about the bridge, the Clackamas Street Bridge, connecting Moda Center, which is part of Lloyd but never gets referred to as such, and connecting to our neighbors to the south and the central east side and truly making us a more connected neighborhood.
 Our group, our neighborhood, our community got together about three years ago and asked the city to reduce the number of lanes in Multnomah.
 That doesn't happen very often where the business community has to reduce street traffic. We did that to enhance the pedestrian experience, the bicycle experience, and to activate the retail spaces. All of that has happened and more. And we see the green loop as a continuation of that vision of activation of the pedestrian experience.
 experience within Lloyd. So we're excited about it going forward. We're excited that Lloyd is among the first to experience this, and we know it's going to be a public-private investment. And American Assets Trust, as a developer in the area, is looking forward to the next phase of development and looking forward to partnering in making this a vision that comes true. So thank you very much. Good afternoon.
 My name is Jenny Taylor. I'm a program manager at GoLloyd. GoLloyd is the transportation management association for the Lloyd neighborhood, representing 150 member businesses, more than 10,000 employees, and a growing number of residents. Creating connections between people and places is what GoLloyd does, and we wholeheartedly support the Green Loop as a vital connection among central city neighborhoods.
 Moreover, we believe the Lloyd neighborhood would be an excellent choice for the first segment of the loop.
 Access to Lloyd is constrained on multiple sides by freeways and arterials, by Sullivan's Gulch, and by the Willamette River. The Green Loop will connect us to adjacent neighborhoods and provide people walking and biking with a convenient and safe way to move back and forth. Safety is a major priority for Lloyd as we have several high-crash corridors and are a community of concern due to our low-income and senior citizen populations.
 The Green Loop would be a tremendous amenity for our growing neighborhood. While Lloyd has long been a major business district, the past several years have seen us transforming into one of the city's most accessible places to live. We currently have hundreds of residential units under construction, including Home Forward's 12-story affordable housing development and many more developments in the planning stage.
 In 2015, Lloyd had an 11 to 1 jobs to housing ratio. Our near-term goal was to get that to 8 to 1 or better. By creating stronger connections to the rest of the central city and by
 By adding some much-needed public green space, the Green Loop will make Lloyd a more livable place for current and future residents and entice more developers to build there. Unlike some other neighborhoods, we do have an infrastructure system in Lloyd that can support high-density development, both commercial and residential.
 Lloyd is a community that is engaged and open to partnerships. In fact, we have a long history of public-private partnerships, as evidenced by the Lloyd Partnership Plan, the Broadway-Weidler Quadrant Plan, and the Lloyd Development Plan, among others. We see value in sharing ideas, listening to stakeholders, and brokering compromise in order to reap the highest public benefit.
 As part of this process, the Lloyd community would be willing to work with the city to explore funding strategies and help make the Green Loop a reality. In fact, much of Lloyd's success to date is due to our willingness to invest public and private dollars in our transportation network. That includes bringing Portland Streetcar to the east side, creating protected bike lanes on Northeast Multnomah Street and Northeast 16th Avenue.
 installing transit trackers at most of our bus stops, investing $2 million annually in employee transit passes, and providing support for the Northeast 7th Avenue Bridge project currently known as Sullivan's Crossing. We believe the Green Loop is a game-changing innovation, and we want to support it the same way.
 This long-term investment in Lloyd and the greater central city will improve access for workers, residents, and shoppers, as well as visitors to Portland. Lloyd, of course, is home to several major regional attractors, including the Oregon Convention Center, the Moda Center and Memorial Coliseum, and Lloyd Center Mall. Thank you.
 The Green Loop will help create stronger connections to our inner east side and downtown neighbors, encourage our interested but concerned populations to choose active modes of transportation, and help make us a safer, healthier, and more livable urban community.
 In addition to all of this, by making Lloyd the first neighborhood to receive investment in the Green Loop, you get Go Lloyd as a partner in promoting it. As a private nonprofit organization with stable funding, we are prepared to work with the city and all of our partners to make the Green Loop a long-term success for Portland. Thank you. Thank you.
 I just want to thank Lloyd for your ongoing partnership, for the excellence that you have demonstrated over many years in raising the money to tax yourselves for the betterment of the district. It's one of my favorite areas. In particular, thank you for welcoming Right to Dream 2 to the area and for recognizing that everybody has to succeed. And so I very much appreciate that. Thank you.
 Very good, and I want to add my thanks and my praise. I think the Green Loop is a fantastic vision, and it's one that I look forward to seeing being implemented
 perhaps not completed during my tenure, but I would certainly like to see it well underway and see the city be engaged and excited by it and committed to seeing the vision to its fulfillment. I think it really could be just an extraordinary iconic asset for this city, and I really appreciate those of you who have been there.
 who have taken an early leadership and early advocacy position. It's always hard to be at the pointy end of the spear, but at the end of the day, everybody will show up and say they were right with you all the time. So thank you for that. Colleagues, any further discussion?
 I move to amend the resolution and accept the associated exhibits as shown in the versions of these documents distributed to Council and described in Attachment B to the May 24th BPS memo. Do I have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? If there's no more, Carla, could you please call the roll on this vote to amend the resolution and exhibits? Saltzman?
 Well, I appreciate all the work that's been done. And I don't know if that was a news headline about this may not be completed before your tenure is over. But I hope it is. I hope your tenure still is going on when this gets completed.
 We'll see. We'll see. Anyway, it's been a visionary project, and it really will. I think, as the mayor said, it's going to connect Portlanders in a way that they've never felt they've been able to connect safely throughout our city and around the city. And I think it will be one of those projects that's going to really just really help redefine Portland.
 how we get it and how we get keeping our residents safe but protecting their abilities to get around as well so good work hi you daily hi this is a wonderful project thank you for explaining it this late tower
 Susan Anderson, since you're not going to be here next week, I'm going to obviously have a long list of thank yous for the Comprehensive Plan and Central City Plan. I pay tribute to the work that you've done leading the Bureau and really making a difference in your time here at the City over many years. So thank you very much. Hi. Wheeler. I, too, have enjoyed my very brief time with you, Susan. You have been an extraordinary leader and a visionary and a doer.
 And you will be missed, as I said previously. But you're not really going anywhere, which is great. So we'll see you when you get back from vacation. Thank you, everybody. I vote aye. The amendment and related exhibit is approved. Okay. So listen patiently and make sure I got this exactly right. We will be back on May 30, 2015, on.
 at 10.15 a.m. for items 526, 527, and the remainder we're going to pass to June 6th to take the final vote on the Central City 2035 plan ordinances and resolutions. Is that accurate? We're getting thumbs up. All right, that concludes the Central City 2035 matter for today. We are adjourned.