Everyone, this is the somewhat delayed
 May 22nd morning session of the Portland City Council. Before I ask Carla to call the roll, I want to thank our internal security for the way they just handled the situation in our council chamber. I had the opportunity to watch it from upstairs and while they were having every name in the book hurled at them, while they were being screamed at, while they were being called out, they demonstrated what I thought was a tremendous
 amount of restraint and I want to thank them for that. So Carla, please call the roll. Okay, we're having some, there it is, sorry, it's on. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. And before we begin, we'll have a statement from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council.
 The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or...
 the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please do so by giving a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you're filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning light will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Thank you. And just a matter of housekeeping for those here and watching on TV, as a matter of housekeeping,
 We'll be moving item 452, establishing privacy and information protection principles to June 19th at 2.45 p.m. time certain. This is a request of council. It's a very important issue. It's a fairly complex one, and given how packed the agenda is today, we wanted to give it due time. So we are moving that to 2.45 p.m. on June 19th.
 This is probably the fullest agenda I have seen since I took office, and so I just want to forewarn people that testimony should be in the two-minute time frame for all items today. First up, though, is communications. People have three minutes for communications. Carla, could you call the first individual? Thank you.
 Item 445, request of Donna Cohen to address council regarding the St. John's Truck Strategy Phase 2. She called and will not be coming. Thanks, Carla. Next individual, please. Item 446, request of Lupe Torres to address council regarding housing. Is Lupe Torres here today?
 I don't see them here at this time. Could you call the next individual, please? 447, request of Valerie Illustre to address council regarding proposal to convert East Moreland Golf Course to affordable housing. I see Valerie. Good morning. Name for the record, please. Three minutes and the mics move around. My name is Valerie Illustre. I'm here to speak on our most important right, which is the right to breathe.
 But my conscience requires me to state that the most important issue facing Portland is police accountability. Across the nation, cities are fighting police unions' attempts to blackmail them into giving them whatever they want. Portland should lead the fight to bring the police union under control.
 If teachers decided to slow down or no-show for all their classes, if your student needed help, they just didn't help them to make a point, then that's kind of RICO. That's under RICO. That's coercion, and it is holding the city hostage. So let's hope that people won't think I'm a cop hater because when you criticize teachers, nobody says you're a teacher hater.
 Okay, I'm here to talk about wood burning. I have materials here that will explain everything that is so obvious about the need to ban burning wood in city limits and actually everywhere. Wood smoke is the most toxic type of pollution, more dangerous than automobile and industrial pollution. The lifetime risk of cancer is 12 times greater from wood smoke as from secondhand cigarette smoke.
 I live in a neighborhood where people will call the cops because somebody is smoking on their lawn. And yet, winter after winter, they belch toxic, horrific smoke into the air. Okay? The size of wood particles makes them many more times dangerous to our bodies. They pass the blood-brain barrier, in fact. If you can smell wood smoke, you're being harmed.
 Even if you reject every intrusion of the nanny state, you should agree that the recreational burning of wood is unethical and should be illegal, especially in urban areas that are already burdened by pollution. My 80-year-old husband...
 coughed all winter and I could tell that he wasn't sleeping during the night because within apartments that are near wood burn, people burning their fireplaces, the concentration inside your apartment can reach 88 percent wood smoke. I literally felt that I was in the middle of a forest fire which I had actually moved from Paradise and Chico not to be in. Wood fires of course have this traditional appeal
 But frankly, so does childbirth without anesthetic and living to be 30. If we want to really go back to the good old days, then we can all get rid of electricity and just hover around our fireplaces. Thank you. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 448, request of Julia Jefferson to address counsel regarding overkill, police brutality of black people. Is Julia here today? Next individual, please, Carla.
 449, request of Letha Winston to address council regarding holding police accountable. I do not see Letha. To the consent agenda please, have any items been pulled? Yes, we have four four, I'm sorry, 454, 455, 459, 461, and 462.
 Could you do that again, Carla? Sure. 454, 455, 459, 461, and 462. All right. Thank you. Could you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda, please?
 Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? There's one item here I just want to note. Item number 455, this is a multiple unit limited tax exemption or a multi. As you know, each multi application comes before the city council for approval. This is going to make all of its 28 units of housing affordable to households earning up to 60% of median family income.
 They were only required to provide two of its 28 units as inclusionary housing units, but the project voluntarily restricted all of its units for 99 years. I just want to acknowledge that as a great partnership for housing. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to move item 462 back to my office, please.
 And we have Commissioner Fritz is going to move item 462, which has been pulled from the consent back to her office without objection. 462 is off. You need to read it. I can read the title. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County Department of Community Justice in the amount of $206,000 to conduct general heavy brushing and cleanup work. Very good. I vote aye. The consent agenda is adopted.
 First time certain item, please. 450. Grant revocable permits to the Portland Rose Festival Foundation to perform activities relating to Portland Rose Festival annual celebration from May 24 through June 9, 2020.
 2019. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. We're going to do this presentation first and then move to the ordinance. We know that the court has been delayed and so we want to get them on stage as soon as possible. So with that, I would invite, am I inviting? Chief Executive Officer of the Rose Festival, Jeff Curtis, and the Rose Festival Board President, Terry Balz-Afferton, who've prepared a presentation for us today to come up. And after their presentation, we'll have a group photograph.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, distinguished commissioners. It's my pleasure to be with you this morning, just 56 hours from the opening of the 2019 Portland Rose Festival celebration.
 You're going to hear about the Rose Festival itself from our court. I just wanted to share a couple of comments just about the organization. We've been at this for the last 12 months, thousands and thousands of hours, and people dedicated to doing nothing but produce this grand celebration for the citizens of our great community and as the greatest beneficiary, the celebration that unites us, the Portland Rose Festival.
 You know, one of the things that doesn't take the limelight as much when you think about Rose Festival is how local we are in the context of our events. It sets us apart when you look at the staging, programming at Waterfront or the parades themselves with all the bands. The local experiences is what makes memories for our citizens, and we grow up with Rose Festival. I think that's a special part and what distinguishes Rose Festival celebration from lots of great events in our community.
 And as we look at locals, we often do what I call a really good job of honoring the people. And it's the people that make a difference in our organization. And just this past month, this month on May the 8th, we started a brand new event called Rose Festival Honors. Focused on women, empowerment, and leadership. Commissioner Hardesty was our guest at that event. And the idea of mentorship. Mentoring young people in our community with the court is our shining example.
 Another example of how we look to local and celebrate local is in the selection of our Starlight Parade Grand Marshal. Mr. Bailey, a 50-year educator at Lincoln High School, is the Grand Marshal of the Starlight Parade. We don't look for the big celebrities when we look at these things. We look at the local touches that makes Portland special. And at the same time, we produce a celebration of which international tourists and people come from all over the world to join us. And that sets us apart.
 And the last thing that sets us apart is we're accessible. When you look at Rose Festival and you look at the parades and the hundreds of thousands of people, it's a free event for our community.
 A lot of the great cities can't quite say that to the extent we can. It's also accessible economically, even if you look at Waterfront. And while we charge admission, over 40% of our guests are either on discount or free to make it as accessible as possible to our community, at the same time having the whole, the high standards of an economic model that we can be self-sufficient.
 So we're very proud of that. And as I conclude my comments this morning and turn it over to our board president, I wanna just share as I just finished my year as the International Festival Events Association board chair, I got a look at events from all over the world
 traveled to Korea, to the Netherlands, and the thing that motivates me most and as reflective of Portland is that events are essential no matter where you're at. They unite us as people, unite us as a community. And what's revered about Portland is my conversations with my colleagues is that we have a special celebration in Portland that's been around 112 years. There's a lot of organizations and cities that look to us as a model for how what they can do and emulate what we do over time.
 And that's something that I'm very proud of. And the people behind me are the hearts and souls of making that happen. So, and you as our city leaders give us this opportunity to produce this celebration. With that said, the heart and soul of our organization is our leadership core and our new president, Terry Bowles Atherton. Terry?
 Thank you. Thank you for having us here. Good morning. Good morning. I'm going to start with telling you a little bit about myself and my connection to the Rose Festival. My earliest memories were, I was about seven years old, assisting in decorating floats at about four in the morning, putting on the final touches for my uncle's float, whose float was the first of its kind to represent the African American community.
 And from there, I just knew that there was something bigger happening and was looking forward to the Rose Festival and what it all had to bring and what it meant to the city of Portland. I also had a couple of cousins who represented their local high schools as Rose Festival Princesses and I aimed to follow in their footsteps. So when I became of age, senior at St. Mary's, I ran for Rose Festival Princess and I did
 I lost my two boats, believe it or not, and they told me that. But it actually had the opposite impact that someone might think. I wasn't jaded by that. I really gleaned and valued the opportunity to go through the process.
 to learn to speak as a young person, introduce myself, answer questions. And that really helped solidify my connection with the Rose Festival. And from then, when I returned to the Portland area after school, decided to join the board to give back. And so I have a little hashtag that's not a princess, but a president.
 that I carry with me. But it's really about volunteers like myself. We're the ones who come together and help the Rose Festival produce its events at its core. So it's really about volunteerism for all of us. We collectively have a board of over 50 volunteers and an amazing staff, thousands of volunteers, but 50 board members, excuse me, that help produce our annual festival. You have a 50 member board? A 50 plus member board.
 to make all of this happen. Imagine those board meetings. But they really are dedicated volunteers, citizens, who year round are giving up their time making this happen. And a lot of that goes unnoticed because it's behind the scenes. But we're ensuring that our programming goes off as smoothly as we can each and every year.
 We're also proud to be the city's official festival. We were granted that several years ago and we wear that as a badge of honor here. Portland is the main beneficiary, not just the city but the citizens of the Portland community and those surrounding Portland. Our last independent study showed that we make an economic impact of about $60 million to the city. So just bringing in people to the city of Portland is huge in that regard.
 But just beyond dollars, the Rose Festival's social and community value, I feel, is immeasurable. If you simply spend some time along one of our three parade routes watching people interact, it's really a community celebration. It's a time to unite people in Portland. Thank you.
 And this Friday is actually our opening day, and I know that Commissioner Udailey is going to join us in those opening ceremonies, and what's also going to trigger our opening evening fireworks celebration. So I just wanted to take just a moment to share a little bit about myself, why I volunteer at the Rose Festival. I wanted to remind Portland and the city that this is your festival, and the stage is set to Let's Festival. That's our theme this year.
 And with that, I'd like to introduce our Rose Festival Court. These young ladies represent our future, they represent hope, and the brightest citizens of Portland and the surrounding communities. So with that, the 2019 Rose Festival Court. We are the 2019 Rose Festival Court, presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. We'd like to introduce ourselves and tell you what's happening during this year's Rose Festival.
 Olivia. I'm Olivia from LaSalle Prep High School. I am senior class president as well as a proud member of LaSalle's chapter of the National Honor Society. I love playing piano and guitar, but I also stay active playing varsity volleyball and spending time outdoors. I have wonderful memories of watching the milk carton boat races with my dad where active kids race boats made out of recycled milk cartons across Westmoreland Casting Pond. I hope you cheer them on this year at the Royal Rosarians Milk Carton Boat Races Sunday, June 23rd.
 I'm Tori Lopez from Caggard High School, and I'm involved in multiple clubs and sports teams at my high school. I'm mostly proud of the memories that I've created with the people around me doing volunteer mentoring work. A wonderful Rose Festival memory of mine is when a Royal Rosarian took off his own personal pin and gave it to me. Did you guys know that you can buy a Rose Festival souvenir pin for only $10? And it's not only a lovely and beautiful souvenir pin, but it's also free admission to our city fair.
 I'm very involved in the Outdoor School Program and I participate in my school's cheer team. I really enjoy spending time with family and friends and visiting the Paddock Mansion where I can view the beauty of Portland. If you like outdoors and exploring, then the Rose Festival Treasure Hunt is just for you. Read clues at oregonlive.com and join the search to find the hidden medallion somewhere on local property. Join the fun and learn more about local history and geography.
 I'm Alina from David Douglas High School. I'm student body president and I participate in a peer mentoring program for special needs students. I love events like last Thursday on Alberta because I can fully immerse myself within the culture of the city. The Rose Festival City Fair is one of our family traditions. This year you can enjoy three weeks of food, fun, rides and entertainment on the waterfront beginning May 24th. Don't miss the fireworks powered by Xfinity. Enjoy hanging out with your friends at Portland's ultimate gathering place.
 I'm Maya from St. Mary's Academy High School. Since elementary school, my visits to OMSI have inspired me to invent and motivated me to create. That's why I plan to study computer science with a focus on web design and coding. If you'd like to know everything happening during this year's Rose Festival, go to our website, rosefestival.org, to get our list.
 I'm Christina from Franklin High School and my high school experience has given me the ability to challenge myself and take on leadership roles. In addition to my involvement in a number of clubs on campus, I enjoy to volunteer and serve my community during my spare time.
 The Rose Festival is proud to have Meals on Wheels people as this year's official charity. They provide nutritious meals and social connections for older adults in the Greater Portland, Vancouver metro. Volunteers at this organization have the chance to save lives by providing food and companionship to those in need. I'm Chloe from Wilson High School. I've really focused on balancing my life as a student, athlete, and teenager and love hanging out with my family and friends and exploring the unique shops in our amazing city of Portland.
 Speaking of unique, if you'd like to find a special gift or memento from the City of Roses and Rose Festival, visit the Rose Garden store located in Portland's famous International Rose Test Garden in Washington Park. All proceeds from the store go towards Portland's famous Rose Gardens. I'm Ellie from Central Catholic High School and one of my favorite places to be in Portland is on a boat floating on the river. I love to be on the river because I believe it gives me a new perspective of the city.
 One of my favorite Rose Festival events is on the river, the Dragon Boat Races. I love the team spirit and camaraderie, and I also love to watch my Aunt Ro. Come see the colorful boats from our sister city, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, on June 8th and June 9th on the Willamette River.
 I'm Amy from Park Rose High School, where I'm a proud member and captain of our elite dance team this year. I've also participated in the Park Rose Debonairs Ensemble and been awarded the Academic Athlete Award for four years in a row. Let's festival at my favorite Rose Festival event, the PGE Solve Starlight Parade on Saturday, June 1st. Come see the amazing illuminated floats, talented marching bands, and funky fun dancing groups live on Portland downtown streets, or come watch Live Old Spectacle on KPTV Fox Channel 12.
 I'm Gabby from Madison High School. My involvement in theater there has been very rewarding. I love creating and sharing art. My favorite festival event is the Fred Meyer Jr. Parade, right in my northeast Portland neighborhood. Come out Wednesday, June 5th to catch the bands, baton twirlers, decorated bicycles, and zany marchers in person. Or catch the telecast live on KPDX Fox 12+.
 I'm Melissa from Benson High School. I enjoy spending time with my brothers and sisters and visiting downtown with my family, especially during the holiday season. Come see who will be crowned this year's Queen of Rosaria at the Queen's Coronation presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. The crowning will take place Saturday morning, June 8th, inside the Veterans Memorial Coliseum, right before the step-off of the Grand Floral Parade. We appreciate your support.
 I'm Daria from Jefferson High School. I'm a certified scuba diver and I enjoy reading and sewing. I love being able to play my flute with the sounds of Jefferson and supporting our teams as a cheerleader. I always dreamed of being able to play the flute in my favorite Rose Festival event, the spectacular Spirit Mountain Casino Grand Floral Parade. Don't miss one of the world's greatest special events right here in Portland.
 Watch it on June 8th along our 4 mile route or from reserved seats inside Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Or catch it on KPTV Fox Channel 12. I'm Stella from Brandt High School and I have a variety of hobbies and interests including woodworking. I'm proud to represent girls in the construction field by participating in the class and help more girls follow my footsteps. Fleet Week is another example of how we can inspire young women to follow a non-traditional career path.
 This Rose Festival tradition features our men and women in sea services, providing an opportunity for the public to visit and tour the ships and learn more about the Navy life. We are hosting the 2019 Rose Festival presented by United Community Credit Union. We'll see the Rose Festival. Can we do a photo, please? Yes. Do we want to get permission? Right here. Come on, we need to know.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So now we move to the business part of this. And thank you again to all of our guests for being here. We are going to be passing an ordinance to grant revocable permits to the Rose Festival Foundation to perform activities related to the Rose Festival annual celebration from May 24 through June 9, 2019. I'm really excited, especially, to be here as the official liaison to the Rose Festival. It's been really interesting to me to have gotten to know the festival.
 but previously others had taken that role and I'm very glad to be in it, having sponsored the resolution in 2010 to make it the official festival of the Rose Festival. So now I'll turn it over to Jeff Curtis again.
 well i think i should probably since this is a staff um ordinance coming to you from pivott allison madsen should certainly speak first on behalf of the bureau that really gives us the ability to do that so that actually reminds me that i forgot to to um honor commissioner ewe daly who's been such a great partner on this and she'd like to say a couple of words first
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and thank you so much to the Rose Festival Committee for keeping this Portland tradition alive and well. As the Transportation Commissioner, I'm happy to do my part as well.
 This is an annual ordinance that allows exceptional uses for the Portland Rose Festival. Covered in the ordinance are the three major parades, various street closures, city fair at Waterfront Park. I have to admit, I still refer to it as Fun Center. I probably will forever. Vending in the right of way, placement of portable toilets, insurance requirements, and other permits that may be required but are not included in this agreement. PBOT does a tremendous amount of work every year to help the festival go off.
 without a hitch and we have our permitting expert Allison Madison here to explain and answer any questions. Welcome Allison. Commissioner Fritz, did you have additional comments? I think we're good. Okay. All right, so I'm gonna hand it off Well, good morning. I think I have the easiest job at council today. These ladies did a great job of introducing the events that the city supports as well as some other things that aren't on our plate.
 We have worked in partnership for over a century to create a festival that is memorable and important to the city. I'm happy to answer any questions you have about the specific ordinance document, but it's the city of Portland. It's an amazing festival, and it's what we do every year to support our partners at the Rose Festival. Thank you. Colleagues, any follow-up questions? Any public testimony on this item? Yes. We have two people signed up.
 Charles Bridgecrane Johnson and Maggie. Very good. Two minutes each. I want to know, do we get to hear from the mayor today? Okay, we'll hold off and wait. Okay, good. Good morning. Good morning, commissioners. My name is Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And I guess the part of the Rose Festival history that strikes me most goes back to the Rose Festival Court of 1982-1984.
 Of course, I wasn't living in Portland then. I was rather young. I was living in Michigan. But in 1982, Karen Lee Batts was enjoying her time in the Rose Festival Court. She's dead now because our country and our city do not adequately serve people suffering with mental illness. She died in a parking garage we're currently remodeling and not making any particular commemoration.
 Many of these great young women with their skills and their excellent coordinated presentations are going to grow up to be civic leaders. And as you on this council know, civic leadership is not all roses. And so I look forward to the Rose Festival Foundation outgoing president. As Charles Johnson, I'm not in any relation to Amy, president on the Rose Festival Executive Board. But I look forward to them memorializing a way to –
 bring this unfortunate bit of history that as a city we can do a Rose Festival, we can provide our citizens with many wonderful opportunities and have some economic stimulus, but we are not yet at the place where we can
 connect the dots well enough to prevent women in the Rose Festival Court of 1982 from dying of hypothermia in a parking garage in 2017. So let us all enjoy the joys that we have, make the Rose Festival the best we can, look at the best ways to
 not only directly invest that money, but encourage civic engagement that will give us public policies and public leadership so that nobody in Portland will die of hypothermia or die from undertreated mental illness. Thank you. Thank you. Did you want to invite up Mayor Harry Lane? Mayor Harry Lane, would you like to testify? We have an honored mayor in the house today. Good morning. Thank you.
 I just want to thank the Council for the tremendous support you've given the Rose Festival over the years. I have the honor of portraying Mayor Harry Lane, who is called the father of the Rose Festival. He was the mayor from 1905 to 1909, and following the Lewis and Clark Exposition, with 1,600,000 people coming to Portland,
 the mayor decided that we should have an annual event, a Rose Festival, and so the first one was held in 2007, and I'm thereby called the father of the Rose Festival. I've been back in Portland since 2006 when we were preparing for the centennial of the Rose Festival,
 and the 11 years that I've been serving in this position, the support of the council has been wonderful. The staff, the lovely princesses through all the years, it's just an honor for me to be here and thank you for the opportunity. We thank you, appreciate it. Very good, with that, colleagues, is there any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Well, Mayor and colleagues, this is obviously one of our
 annual highlights when the Rose Festival comes and presents. I've been on the council now for a little over 10 years. Commissioner Hardesty extended it to 12. But it's been a while. And one of the joys of my service is that every year a different group of very distinguished young women leaders comes before us. And when we get a chance to listen to
 the kinds of activities they're involved with. And I noticed this year we have a number of student body presidents, we have athletes, we have scholars, we have people deeply involved in their community doing community service. It is so refreshing to be able to highlight these good stories. And I can tell you, especially as the father of a 26-year-old daughter,
 who was the beneficiary of great role models growing up. In her case, she was a soccer player, so she had women from the University of Portland who were coaches who provided just tremendous role models and mentorship.
 So I think we have to always begin by just saying congratulations to the young women who put their names out there, who've taken this responsibility so seriously, and who are such great ambassadors for the City of Portland. We are so proud of you and let's make that the point of agreement today. I also want to say, Jeff, I'm very pleased you chose Meals on Wheels this year. Meals on Wheels is one of our great local nonprofits.
 They serve a lot of elderly shut-in people who, but for Meals on Wheels, would not have a nutritionist meal. No one in our community should go to bed hungry. And so thank you for elevating their profile. It goes without saying that from the executive director to the president to the board, the Board of 50, we are very fortunate to have great local leadership. Jeff, you've been at this for how long? Fourteen.
 14 years and there's no term limits in your position? Okay. Now you've led the international organizations, you've been doing some traveling and you've seen how we stack up. I was on the council with Commissioner Fritz where we joined with then Mayor Adams to name this the official festival of the city and it's one of the proudest votes I've ever taken to sort of make it clear that the city feels tremendous buy-in and partnership with what you do.
 I'm very pleased you've chosen Mr. Bailey to honor him. My daughter, excuse me, my son is a freshman at Lincoln. Mr. Bailey is a legend. I think that's almost as inspired as the year you chose Clive Charles. And it was toward the end of Clive Charles' life, but you honored him. And he was one of the great grand marshals. And Mr. Bailey is well suited. You talked about the economic impact, the $60 million or more. And I'm sure that understates it. Yeah.
 you know, one thing that we're going to do in this year's budget, and I don't think there's any controversy. There's some disagreements on some things down the stretch, but I think where we're all united is there's this, the mayor has put a hundred thousand dollars in his budget for the Rose Festival. And I think it's the least we can do is provide some financial support to, to, to signal how, how much we value what you do. And finally, I just want to say that, you
 Commissioner Fritz has now served on and off as liaison to the Rose Festival. No one on this council has ever embraced that job the way she does, and I want to thank her for her leadership and for the work that she does on behalf of all of us. I also want to thank my colleagues for taking the time to go to various events. I think it's very important that the community sees that the entire council supports what you do.
 For all of those reasons, I'm so proud today to support this ordinance and to wish you well in your festival. Aye. Hardesty? Aye.
 As the newest council member, I have to say I had mixed feelings when I was first invited to come to your first awards ceremony. And the reason is because I'm from Baltimore, right? We don't sleep outside the night before a parade to get a good seat, and so I just didn't appreciate that.
 that this is in fact something that the community, some community members deeply feel. I believe that this is, that the festival is growing, it's getting more mature, it's certainly getting more diverse and we see that in the board chair and the beautiful Rose Festival queens that are here today. As a feminist, I also had very mixed feelings about what are we doing?
 But how wonderful to hear your stories about your activities, your commitment to community, your commitment to health, your commitment to doing something fabulously wonderful with your life. And so I guess this is one of those times as a elected official that I was torn.
 Because what I know is that for a long time, African Americans and other people of color did not feel welcome as part of this celebration. But we're moving forward, and we're moving forward in a very positive way. I also want to say that I know that houseless community members dread this time of year because they get pushed to the sides and edges of our city. All of this is Portland.
 The people that are on the street are just as worthy as the Rose Festival to participate in our city. And so I support you, I applaud you, I support this effort, but I hope as we move forward into the next hundred years,
 that we are much more inclusive of all parts of our community. I'd like to know where that $60 billion goes, because I don't know people that are making money off Rose Festival, but maybe there's an opportunity for business partnerships that actually leave something, you know, leave some resources in our community. So thank you for what you do. Can't imagine trying to control a 50-member board. That just seems real scary to me.
 I vote aye. Udailey? Well, thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for your comments. I have to admit that I also have some mixed feelings, but have come to see the festival as an amazing gift that we've inherited and realized that it is largely what we deserve.
 collectively decided to make of it. So I look forward to the festival just better and better reflecting and serving our community in the coming years. I want to thank the Rose Festival Committee again. I want to thank the Rose Festival Court for coming here and introducing yourselves and reminding us of all the special events we have to look forward to. I didn't hear my family's tradition, which was Rose Cup races, which happens later this summer.
 So just want to plug for that. Thank you to Commissioner Fritz and her staff member, Yesenia, for all their work on coordinating this item. And thank you to Allison Madsen. I keep wanting to add a syllable to your last name. I'm sorry, Allison. Madsen from PBOT for your diligent behind-the-scenes work on bringing this all together so seamlessly. I vote aye. Aye.
 The great Charles Jordan, former Parks Commissioner, former City Council member, said that parks are more than fun and games. And so is the Rose Festival. And it is fun and games. So in this time where we're all desperately worried about climate change and women's rights and various city budget this afternoon and various other really crucial things, it's also crucial to...
 provide mechanisms for people to get together to enjoy each other and a wide spectrum of people to enjoy each other and to celebrate and
 the joy that can be in the City of Roses. So thank you so much for providing that. Thanks to Yesenia Carrillo and my staff, who's done an absolutely amazing job of putting this entire process together. Thank you Mayor Wheeler for your leadership of Portland Police Bureau in collaborating on this. Commissioner Eudaly, you and your staff in your office and in transportation have been fantastic. Commissioner Fish, thank you for all of the work that Parks does to help make this work.
 It really is an all hands on deck and all of us participating. And I appreciate how the Rose Festival Foundation divides up the honors each year to give us different experiences on the council. So I'm looking forward to walking in the Starlight Parade next weekend, not this weekend, but the weekend after. Any of my colleagues who'd like to join in, it's a really fun one. But then all of the events are really fun. So thank you so much. And aye. Aye.
 Wheeler? We live in a world that's increasingly divided. And as people, we're increasingly divided. And so I'm very, very proud of the Rose Festival and the work that everybody associated with the Rose Festival does to bring us all together as a community. And I appreciate the focus that the Rose Festival has had for many years on inclusivity.
 And I appreciate the fact that as much as possible, the majority of events are free and accessible to the public. And that continues to be an important calling card for this organization, this event. And I appreciate it. And I'm glad that the city is able to be supportive of this venture. A couple of personal notes. Number one, as somebody who was born and raised here, I have watched the Rose Festival evolve as our community has evolved.
 and I've watched it provide leadership opportunities for people who historically have been excluded from leadership opportunities. I had the privilege of watching Robin Marks become the first African-American Rose Festival Queen, and she was in my high school, and I got to see her, and other young women got to see her, and people all across the city got to see her, and she did brilliantly.
 that role and I think changed single-handedly the perspective many people had about the Rose Festival and what it meant and the leadership opportunities that it could provide not just to young women but people all across this city. The choice of Mr. Bailey is as Commissioner Fish said inspired. I didn't actually have Mr. Bailey as a teacher but I did have him as an instructor.
 He was somebody who, I can't even remember what my role was, but I did something on the school council. I was the historian or something. I don't know what I did. But I remember he was the advisor, the faculty advisor to the student council, and he'd come in after hours,
 while most people were having dinner with their families or whatever, and he would sit with us and we would sit with parents as part of a student parent initiative. And his questions were always probing.
 And they were insightful, and sometimes they were even impossible to answer. But they were always the kinds of questions that would cause you to think. And I still remember him asking me a question about some idea I had that was just flat-out bureaucratic. I don't remember even what the idea was. I just remember him coming up to me and questioning, is this really moving the cause forward, or is it just adding bureaucracy? And why do you need to do that when there might be other ways to address the same issue?
 remembering that question has stuck with me through all of these years. And I want to thank you for acknowledging not only an educator, but somebody who really has served in a leadership capacity and an inspirational role for generations of students going through Lincoln High School. And last but not least, I just want to acknowledge that this is sort of all in the family. My grandmother was on campus.
 the Rose Festival Court many, many years ago, and it meant a lot to her personally and the friendships that she developed were friendships that she held onto for the rest of her life. And I know she always looked back on it fondly as a really important experience. So what we do has small influences, it has large influences.
 but to the young women who have stepped forward and agreed to undergo this grueling schedule and be at all of these different events and meetings. It's been fun to watch you. It's been fun to hear you. It's been fun to hear about all the work you've already done and the aspirations that you have for yourselves and the community in the future. And I applaud you. I vote aye, the ordinance is adopted. Thank you everyone. We'll take a two minute recess.
 appoint Acacia Lawrence Spence, Arianna Magnera, and Steph Routh, and reappoint Katie Larcell and Eli Spivak to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for terms to expire May 31, 2023. Colleagues, I request your confirmation to appoint Acacia Lawrence Spence
 Oriana Magnera, and Steph Rout to be the Planning and Sustainability Commission and to reappoint Katie Larcell and Eli Spivak to terms beginning June 1st 2019 and extending through May 31st 2023. We currently have three openings on the Planning and Sustainability Commission with seats vacated most recently by Michelle Rudd, Andre Bau, and Teresa St. Martin.
 The city conducted an extensive interview process to fill these seats, and I'm proud to appoint these three new, in my opinion, extremely qualified commissioners to an important and hard work city advisory board, and I'm happy to reappoint them.
 two long-serving members to new terms. I'm going to now pass this over to Andrea Durbin who is the new Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to tell us a little bit more but I also want to acknowledge this is her first presentation in her new capacity in front of the Portland City Council. Welcome. Thank you very much Mayor and City Council members. With your approval we're very excited to welcome these three new members to the... Andrea since you're new
 You have to say your name for the record. Every time you come here. I'm Andrea Durbin, the Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thanks. Welcome. With your approval, we are excited to welcome three new members to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. As many of you know, the Planning and Sustainability Commission was formed by Mayor Adams.
 He combined the Planning Commission and the Sustainable Development Commission. Our work has expanded from reviewing purely zoning and planning projects to a much wider range of projects. The Planning and Sustainability Commission includes 11 volunteer members with expertise in a range of areas. Their major role is to advise you, City Council, on Portland's long-range goals and policies and programs for land use planning and sustainability.
 The Planning and Sustainability Commission has specific responsibility for stewardship, development, and maintenance of the city's comprehensive plan, the climate action plan, and the zoning code. And they ensure sustainability practices and policies are integrated across the board. They advise city council as well as city bureaus and other agencies on projects and proposals that significantly affect the city.
 Our three proposed city commissioners for the PSC bring a wealth of knowledge and experience in working with diverse communities and incorporating feedback to help make strong recommendations to benefit all Portlanders. So I'm excited to present these recommended commissioners for the Planning Sustainability Commission, and we'll invite each of them to come up and introduce themselves. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you for being here.
 Good morning, Council. For the record, my name is Oriana Moneira. I use she, her pronouns. And I'm excited about this opportunity to join the Planning and Sustainability Commission because I hope to bring a more radical and changed focus voice to that space. I think for too long, planning and zoning in the history of Portland have caused unintended consequences and sometimes very intended consequences.
 that have influenced our history of racism in the city around planning, around redlining. And I hope to make sure that we keep that into account in terms of how we look toward the future. We need to build a city of the future in Portland. And it needs to be one that is inclusive. It needs to be one that is accessible. And it needs to be one that takes into account a variety of positionalities and identities in terms of how we address our planning, our zoning, our sustainability practices, and
 The climate action plan, residential infill, the comprehensive plan all have a huge bearing on what our city looks like in the future. And we have an opportunity to take account for our history and make radical change in that space. And I hope to bring that voice to council and to the commission and also to.
 To push what the Commission looks at I think residential infill is an example where we could have taken a stronger anti-displacement lens The Commission has not always been a space of one that looks beyond planning or sustainability but I think that's an example of one that
 But as the Commission vote came forward, there was an opportunity to take a yes and approach. And I want to ensure that in my voice on the Commission that we are always taking a yes to and approach and taking into account perspectives of accessibility for seniors, for youth, for people with disabilities,
 looking at issues for communities of color and low-income communities around the city. And in particular, as a Commission member, I hope to reach out to community and to bridge the gap between the technical information that comes from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the voices of community members who will be essential in ensuring that we don't have unintended consequences
 for our decisions and that we're taking more of a community focused grassroots approach to planning sustainability and zoning in the city. Thank you very much. Excellent, thank you. We appreciate your stepping forward, Ariane. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, good morning, Council. My name is Akasha Laurence Spence. I believe that our greatest challenge
 is making the city that we live and work in one that we, our children and our children's children, are proud to call home for generations to come. As an architectural designer turned developer, I know that the path to accomplishing this is by investing in the public realm.
 From the preservation of our waterfronts to designated spaces for food carts, from urban infill to a commitment to bolstering our transportation systems and simultaneously lowering emissions, by creating new spaces that encourage wander and exploration while ensuring the safety and viability of every citizen under our purview. Thank you.
 I chose to join the Planning and Sustainability Commission because we owe it to our city to think strategically about how the decisions we make will impact those historically underserved and underrepresented by this very institution and reconcile that with who we want our city to advocate for. Because for most people, where they're born is where they're going to live for the rest of their lives. Why not make that place, the city we call home, feel like a choice?
 Why not ensure that the city of Portland is the most equitable, sustainable, economically viable, and just place that we could ever live? I look forward to furthering that reality alongside my fellow PSC commissioners, Director Durbin, staff, and our fellow citizens, whose community engagement and knowledge of how systems work and how they should work for them make sure that we are deeply committed to this mission of creating a more prosperous, healthy, and inclusive Portland for us all.
 Thank you. Thank you, Kasia. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Steph Routh. I'm grateful to be here and for the gift of brevity because the best words have already been said. I was born and raised in East Portland. I believe anti-displacement is everyone's job, racial justice is everyone's job, and I'm looking forward to the hard work ahead.
 Very good. Colleagues, these are my recommended appointees to the PSC. Any comments or questions? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I just want to applaud you, Mayor, for this fine panel of young people. I'm even going to include you in the young people category, right?
 how brilliantly clear you are about your mission. And I am so grateful that you're willing to volunteer your time to help make Portland better. And we can be better. And I haven't had the pleasure of meeting you all prior to today, but I look forward to that opportunity.
 Well done, ma'am. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Udaly. Well, I didn't think I was going to make any comments, but this is such a superstar bunch. I have to say, number one, I feel a little envious that you have them on one of your committees. So watch out. Yes, ma'am. We're coming for you, yes.
 And I want to point out that appointing people to commissions and committees is one of the quieter, but really vitally important opportunities we have to bring amazing talent, skill, knowledge, expertise to the city. And finally, I want to say I'm really excited about your comments, and I think...
 We have gotten to where we are by design. I don't believe that it was by default. I don't believe it's de facto. I believe that we planned our way to the city that we have now, and it's our obligation to seek remedy for the harms done. So thank you. I'm really excited to hear your feedback.
 Very good. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the report. The motion from Commissioner Hardesty, the second from Commissioner Udalli. Please call the roll. Fish. Well, welcome to Andrea Durbin in her first council appearance and in her newest leadership role. And we're really excited to have the chance to work with you in the years ahead. So welcome. And to our three commissioners, thank you for your public service.
 There are certain boards and commissions of the city where we expect very little of people, quite frankly, and there are others where you could spend your entire week
 working on the subject matter and the Planning and Sustainability Commission is one of those bodies where the work is boundless and The opportunity is great So this is pure public service for you to take this on in addition to all the other things that you do in your Personal and professional lives and we're grateful that you've chosen To volunteer your service to the city and I'm very pleased today to vote aye on your nominations. Hardesty?
 I also want to just thank you so much for your willingness to volunteer. As the former president of the Coalition for a Livable Future, the term sustainability used to make me batty.
 And it used to make me batty because if you're living in really unenvironmentally sound locations, if you are just struggling to get by, nobody wants to sustain that. And we had a culture that just didn't understand that sustainability was a very comfortable white middle class term.
 And so because of your fearlessness to just call it as you see it, I have every confidence that we're going to get much better outcomes from the Planning and Sustainability Commission because of your fearlessness. So thank you so much for your willingness to step in and not just step in, but actually speak truth to power. Look forward to working with you. I vote aye. Thank you, Daley.
 Thank you for your willingness to serve our city. And I want to also thank Eli Spivak and Katie Larcelle, who are being reappointed. I wish I could be a fly on the wall in that meeting room, but look forward to the advice you're going to bring forward. I vote aye. Fritz.
 Commissioner Davie, you can because they're all televised. And that's because former Commissioner Randy Leonard wanted to keep an eye on me when I was on the Planning Commission from 1996 to 2003. He insisted on getting them all televised. I'll add it to my list. I know, really.
 Thank you very much for serving and as I served on the Planning Commission for almost eight years, it was a huge learning experience for me and came to really respect the amount of work and thought that does go into making decisions. I know that each of you will put in the time and effort. I think it took me about 20 hours a week so I hope that
 That doesn't impact... Well, it will impact the rest of your life, and it will also be one of the most important things that you will... It may be one of the most important things that you do. It's certainly crucial to the city, so thank you very much for that. Thank you, Mayor, for bringing forward these nominations. Thank you to Michelle Rudd, Andre Barr and Theresa St-Martin, particularly Andre Barr, who's, I think, served for over 10 years, having been on the Planning Commission before it became Planning and Sustainability Commission, and therefore term limits kind of got rolled over. And he...
 as you alluded to in the residential infill project, she really called out the displacement issue, as did Katie LaSalle from East Portland, and I'm glad that she is being reappointed. And so I thank everybody who's putting in a really diligent amount of thought and time and effort to making sure that the Council gets the best advice from the community on these crucial issues, aye.
 Wheeler. Well, first of all, I want to thank the three of you for putting your name in the hat, for being willing to go through a selection process, for going through the interview process. I enjoyed our conversations immensely and what occurred to me is we have really good people currently on the commission.
 Katie and Eli being fantastic members that we're reappointing. The three of you also bring new perspectives and new voices that I think are absolutely essential to the planning and the sustainability function of the advisory committee. And so I'm really just excited for you. And I'm excited for the conversations going forward, and I appreciated the not only inward
 technical expertise that you will provide, but also your outward focus and your desire to connect and communicate and interact with the community. I think that is tremendously important and is only going to get more important in the days and the years ahead. So thank you for your service. I vote aye. And before I drop my gavel, Andrea, welcome. We're really excited about what your leadership means for this city. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. The appointment's approved. Carla, I'm going to move it, but if you could read 452. Mm-hmm.
 452, establish privacy and information protection principles to serve as guidance for how the City collects, uses, manages and disposes of data and information. So I made this announcement earlier but I'll make it again just in case somebody didn't hear it. We're moving item 452, establishing privacy and information protection principles
 to June 19th at 2.45 p.m. time certain. Again, that's June 19th, 2.45 p.m. time certain. Next item, regular agenda 463, second reading. Settlement with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for certain Portland Harbor remedial design costs. Colleagues, this is a second reading. We've already heard a presentation and taken testimony on this item. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 Colleagues, today we're reaching an important milestone in the cleanup of a 10-mile stretch of the Portland Harbor, also known as Superfund. I'm proud that our city team, led by BES Director Mike Jordan, Annie Von Berg, and Nancy Klinger, helped to craft this innovative proposal. This unique trust will enable us to meet the city's fiscal obligations for the design phase in a thoughtful and responsible way while increasing our legal certainty.
 We also hope that it incentivizes other parties to come to the table. But let me be clear, as Audubon's Bob Salinger brought up last week, the trust will not subsidize private parties or absolve them of their liability as polluters. Thank you to Mike and to Annie and to Nancy for your passion and your creativity.
 Thanks to Governor Brown and her team, Chief of Staff Nick Blosser, Natural Resources Policy Advisor Jim McKenna for their ongoing partnership. Thanks to EPA Headquarters and EPA Region 10, and Lord knows we have a lot of disagreements with EPA, but at least Portland Harbor is not one of them, for prioritizing the Portland Harbor and for working with our team to finalize this agreement. Mayor Wheeler, I'm proud to work with you to lead the City's work on Superfund,
 Today we're taking a major step forward towards a cleaner and safer Willamette River. I'm proud to vote aye.
 You daily well, I'm really pleased to see this issue Advancing we've been waiting many years for progress on our cleanup This was one of the issues central to my campaign. We helped drive record-breaking numbers of public comment to the EPA and Thanks to the community. We ended up with a stronger and better cleanup plan So this is the next step in the right direction. I vote aye Fritz
 Commissioner Fish, you've been involved in this for your entire time on the council, first with parks and then with environmental services. Major kudos, and thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for reminding us that there's a lot of community input gone into this as well. Aye. Wheeler. Any time jurisdictional partners can come together for the public good, I think, is good governance working the way it should, and this is an example of that.
 This is, I believe, a great example of the hard work matched at the local and the state levels to protect and preserve one of this region's greatest treasures, which is the Willamette River. Governor Brown said it very eloquently a few weeks ago when she noted the importance of the natural environment, one of the most beautiful in the world, in my opinion, and emphasized in the shared responsibility that is implied in this agreement.
 In this spirit, the partnership aimed to achieve a collective goal. This is something that we can all be proud of. And as Commissioner Fish put it, this is a milestone that we can all celebrate. I'd also like to thank all of the staff at the Bureau of Environmental Services that worked so hard to facilitate this partnership, especially Mike Jordan, Annie Von Berg, and Nancy Klinger.
 And I'd like to thank Nick Blosser again. He's the governor's chief of staff. He provided fantastic testimony and leadership on behalf of the governor. Nick, thank you for your work. And thanks to everybody in the governor's office for coming to the table with open minds and working so hard on what I think is a very creative
 an important solution. And I'd like to thank the EPA for their leadership at the federal level and for prioritizing the work of the Portland Harbor that created the space that allowed us to move forward with this work. The staff at the agency, especially from EPA Region 10, those are our local folks, have shown up in big ways throughout the entirety of this process.
 And finally, I want to thank Commissioner Fish and his staff for their superb leadership on this from the very beginning until today. Commissioner, I am likewise proud to partner with you on this important work. Partnership works. My team and I often speak about creative policy making and how the best solutions come forward when we think boldly and don't necessarily tread down the already well-beaten path.
 This agreement and this partnership is a fantastic example of that sentiment, and I'm very happy to support it. And lastly, but not leastly, I want to thank Amy Rathalder from my office for the hard work that she put into this, keeping me posted and advised me. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone. Next item is also a second reading, item number 464.
 amend permit fee schedules for building, electrical, land use services, mechanical enforcement, plumbing, signs, site development and land use services fee schedule for the hearings office. Also a second reading Commissioner Fritz. Thank you Mayor. As I signaled last weekend last week if I might be bringing amendments I have submitted an amendment to this which I will pass out. Thank you.
 There was a typo in what was in the Tuesday memo, so this is why I printed out again. So I move to amend Exhibit C, page 2, Historic Resource Review, by reducing the land use review fee schedule amount for Historic Resource Review to 300 for Tier A, which is restoration and replacement in-kind reviews, and to 300 for Tier B, exterior alterations reviews. Tier C, new accessory structures or additions of floor area to structures review should remain at...
 1750 as currently proposed in the fee schedule. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. I have a question. Excuse me, after the sponsor's finished. Thank you. And if I might just explain, this will be this afternoon I'll be moving an amendment to the budget to add 70,000 from contingency to be given to BDS to cover the shortfall.
 If that amendment fails, then next week when we go to the second reading of this ordinance, I would withdraw the amendment and it would stay as in the current proposal. Very good. Any further discussions on the amendment? Commissioner Fritz, we had a lot of testimony last week from homeowners in historic districts who cited relatively minor improvements that would have otherwise triggered a very substantial fee, which they thought was grossly inequitable.
 Tier A and Tier B applications, as I understand it, covered the bulk of the concerns the community raised. Yes. And what's your thinking in terms of keeping the fee for Tier C? Sure.
 Thanks to Commissioner Udailey, accessory dwelling units that are not going to be short-term rentals already get a system development charge waivers. So this is a significant new development that is going to take a fair amount of staff work, and the community felt that leaving that at $1,750 was reasonable. And again, you've foreshadowed that this afternoon as one of the amendments we'll be taking up is a $70,000 contingency request. Correct. Okay. Thank you very much. I'd like to thank Jim Howe and...
 others in the community for bringing this to my attention and Guiding this proposal very good. So we have an amendment on the table I'll keep it open during testimony since this is the first reading then we'll take a vote on the amendment But we won't actually be voting on the underlying ordinance today. So Carla with that is their public testimony on this item I did not have a sign-up sheet for the amendment. Okay, very good. Would you like to testify on this item? I?
 Charles Bridgecrane Johnson and further as Commissioner Fiske has addressed the specific tier levels A, B and C but I think that for constituent transparency even though this is in the record I want to encourage the council somebody on there to read the dollar amounts and a brief description. I know we're packed but I think that that is the level of good governance that you people aspire to so if the amounts and a little fuzzy description could come out that would be the best for y'all.
 Very good. Any further questions? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz for bringing forward this amendment. I was also very concerned that this significant increase was really an increase to cover the
 the budget to cover their expenses is what they said basically to cover staffing levels. And I continue to struggle with that because I don't think that we should be setting fees based on the amount of money that government needs. The fee should be based on what's reasonable for the average person who has to pay it. So I appreciate the amendment and look forward to the later conversation. Very good. Call the roll on the amendment, please. Fish? Fish?
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for bringing this amendment forward. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for signaling last week that you were interested in this. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for seconding the motion and all of my colleagues for supporting it. Aye. Thank you.
 Wheeler. I think this is a very reasonable and Pragmatic solution to the issue that was raised during testimony last week. I appreciate it. I support it I vote aye the amendment is adopted. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance It moves to second reading as amended next item is Item number four six four, please. I'm sorry four six five. I
 465, amend an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County in an amount not to exceed $197,160 and extend funding through March 31, 2020 for the forensic consultant contract expenses related to the National Sexual Assault Kit Initiative Program. Very good, this is also a second reading. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? Aye.
 Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item please, 466, Procurement Report. Authorize a price agreement with G4S Secure Solutions USA Inc. for professional security officer services.
 for a contractual term of five years, totaling $10 million. Colleagues, this report is an update to council on the results of the request for proposals for security services for city-owned buildings. The council directed the procurement services to issue this RFP on January 30th, 2019. There was substantial presentation and public testimony taken at that time.
 Subsequently, input was asked of council offices on the specific criteria to be used. It's my understanding there was no feedback provided by any council office. Council acceptance of the Chief Procurement Officer's report will enable procurement services to execute a contract with the highest scoring vendor. The interim procurement manager, Scott Schneider, is here today to present the item and answer any questions we may have.
 Good morning. Scott Schneider from Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report this morning recommending the award of a price agreement for professional security officer services for not to exceed amount of $10 million. This contract will have a term of five years. On February 11th, the Chief Procurement Officer advertised RFP 1162 and on March 14th, four proposals were received.
 All four proposals were deemed responsive to the requirements of the solicitation. A committee reviewed and evaluated all four proposals. The city issued a notice of intent to award the contract to G4S Secure Solutions, Inc. on March 29th. No protests were received. G4S Secure Solutions, Inc. has a current City of Portland business tax account, is in compliance with the city's contracting requirements,
 Based on the city's historical spend for security services, the confidence level for this procurement is high. G4S is not an Oregon-certified minority-owned, women-owned, disabled veteran-owned, or emerging small business, and there are no subcontractors on this contract.
 If Council has any questions regarding the solicitation process, I can answer those. Or Dorothy Elmore from Facility Services is here to answer any questions you have about the project. Chair Greg Musil. Commissioner Fisch. So I have a couple of questions and thank you very much. And first- Is there a motion first? Not yet. He can go ahead and ask questions before the motion. So my first question is who came in second in the solicitation?
 Or my understanding is that Phoenix Protective Corp came in second, is that correct? That's right, Phoenix Protective Corp. And they are a non-union shop, is that correct? Do you happen to know that? That's what I was advised by your office, I just want to put it in the record. That's correct. Yes. Okay. Do we require as part of our solicitations on procurement that organizations have labor peace agreements or agree to essentially labor peace language?
 We do not have a standard requirement for a labor peace agreement. I know it's something that we've discussed recently, but it's not part of our standard corporate responsibility requirements. So what's the proper forum for us as a council to address that issue? Because it's something I care a lot about, and I want to make sure we have a chance as a council at the appropriate time to talk about that. So we are in the process of...
 refining our corporate responsibility requirements, including some supplier some supplier responsibility language as part of that. I think that would be a good time to address how those should evolve and to the extent they should incorporate something like a labor peace agreement. Right, and by the way, labor peace agreement just says that it's a fairly innocuous clause in today's times and for a city which has
 affirmatively said we support workers rights, rights to engage in collective bargaining, select representatives of their choice. Having some kind of labor peace language I think is appropriate, but would you let us know following this hearing when is the appropriate time that we'll have a chance as a council to discuss that? I will. Thank you very much. Did you have a question Commissioner Hurst? I have two questions. Number one on the scoring
 that was put forth G4S1, how close was second place? Out of 500 points, G4S had 449 in Pacific. Protective Corp came in at 421. And the second question is Commissioner Fish has just raised the question of labor support. It's my understanding the G4S employees here at City Hall, they are SEIU represented. Is that correct? That's correct. Very good.
 Any further questions? I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Please call the roll. You know, I've received quite a few emails and communications from community members, and at some point in my thinking about this issue, I got a little confused because you could on some level conclude from some of the concerns raised that we are here to address some foreign policy questions,
 affecting the United States and its allies, rather than a procurement issue which deals with security at City Hall. And I want to bring this back to the local. I want to bring this back to what this is really about, which is security officers providing public service in this building. And I want to begin by acknowledging the people involved.
 the people who are currently providing services. And I am notoriously bad at reading people's names. So if I could have the dispensation of our valued employees, of the valued security officers, but I'm gonna read the list of people that provide services here at City Hall. Cheryl Leon Guerrero, Kirk Robinson, John Palazzi, Ovi Griggs, Roy Ackley, James Strom, Patricia Altimus,
 Melissa Petrie, Daniel Hodgson, Sean Trotter, Ralph Davis, Adrian Johnson, Chris Alvarez, Tanya Coleman, Ryan Hintz, Daniel Seip, Clint Mignogne, David Dummer, Cassandra Oates. So that's the list that I have and you know I've had periodic conversations with folks who provide security services and we've talked about things like family and work and what people do outside of work
 and we've tried to keep it real. We've never really had conversations about global issues and foreign policy and what people think. And here's what I've observed. Without fault, the people who are currently providing services to City Hall treat people with respect, are very skilled at de-escalating situations as they come up, and provide great service to us. So I'm calling out the people that do the work and that keep us safe.
 Now my understanding is that procurement organized a committee of internal staff with a community member who reviewed and evaluated and scored four professional security officer service proposals. Through that process, G4S was the top ranking company and it is significant to me that it is a unionized company, meaning that the security officers that I identified personally earlier
 are represented by a union of their choice, the Service Employee International Union, SEIU 49. And it is also my understanding, confirmed in this hearing, that the second place provider, Phoenix Protective Corp., is not a union shop, which means people don't enjoy the same benefits of having family wages and benefits and an agent representing them at the table.
 For me, today is about supporting local hardworking employees who earn family wages and benefits and have a record of providing great service to the city. Our procurement report has produced G4S as the winner. There are no challenges, meaning none of the other
 applicants for this position of providing services claim that there was anything irregular in our process. That's separate from whether community members agree or disagree with the decision, but no one cried foul and has come to us and said the process somehow was lacking. Under those circumstances, I'm duty bound to accept the procurement report, and I vote aye. Hardesty? Mayor, we alert.
 You're you're out of you're out of order you're out of order This is a disruption in violation of the council rules if you continue you'll be asked to leave If you continue you will be asked to leave and I will have to clear the chamber We will take a five-minute recess excuse me you're out of order and listen what I can do Okay, I'm sorry we're gonna have to clear the chamber. I'm sorry so I'll take your can I just encourage people to
 Thank you, Mayor. I would really love to ask people to just give us a moment. You know, we may not agree on this issue, but I want you in this room as we take this vote. It is important to me that my community is here. You won't agree on every vote that I take. But I want you to hear what I have to say. Would you give me that respect? Sure.
 I would gladly give you that respect, but we'd also like to have the respect of being able as a public community to be able to say what our views are. I appreciate that, but we are in the middle of taking our vote now, and I just want your respect to allow me to make my statement.
 And so today the security officers who protect the city of Portland's buildings, staff and constituents work for G4S, Secure Solutions, and are members of SEIU Local 49. My biggest priority is making sure that the security force that we use here at the city and in other buildings that we have are trained in de-escalation and that they are
 and that they only call the police as a very last resort. I promised when I ran for office that I wanted this place to be a safe space for dialogue and debate about the issues that impact this city.
 Procurement choice number two is a non-union contractor, which I would never support because I believe in living wages for the people who work for the city of Portland. And my experience personally with the security here, they have bent over backwards to be responsive and to de-escalate situations. I have seen security officers harmed.
 and showed up the next day ready to do it all over again. I am aware that my vote to support this contract will be a disappointment to some of my community members. I have heard your concerns. My office has responded to every letter, phone call, request for a meeting that has been issued.
 While I vote today in favor of this contract for these security personnel, I find it problematic that the public, because this is the second biggest issue that people have written and spoke to me about, only behind parks. I wish that I could allow your voices to be heard today,
 But I cannot. I am not. I don't have that power. Stop. Stop. I so appreciate the fact that people know that I will always be direct and straightforward. I have never hidden that I would support this contract because I support the fine men and women who are part of this contract.
 Now, I want to see a show of hands. How many people came here to testify in support of this contract? Would you put your hands up? Thank you. How many people came in opposition to this contract? Just your hands. Thank you. Please stop. It is clear to me that overwhelmingly people have an issue with the international arm of this company. Stop. Stop.
 Let her finish. Let her finish, please. I understand that as the public, you have a right to disagree with what your elected leaders do. However, you elected me to make hard decisions, and there were only four companies. And even if we went back out today and did it all over again, there would still only be four companies that would compete.
 Stop. I want you to know that I have heard you. I thank you very much for being here today because it's important to me that the public shows up. I vote aye for this contract. You, Daly? With all due respect...
 Please don't interrupt me. Again, this is Commissioner Udalli's time, not yours. Please. With all due respect, please allow Commissioner Udalli to do her thing. And if Mayor Wheeler would allow public testimony, we could present another option. Commissioner Udalli, the floor is yours. Okay, thank you. Before I begin, please stop interrupting me. I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Before I begin, yes, my name has been called. This is my turn to speak.
 Would like to be allowed to speak the mystery not helpful at all. I'm not inviting comment from any of you
 Before I begin my closing remarks, I want to point out two things. One, we are changing the procurement process, and we will start to hear reports along with ordinances. There is public testimony on ordinances. So this issue of not being able to testify on reports will be effectively eliminated. But it is the rule for today, like it or not.
 Two, my office has been working with procurement and SEIU since last fall on a labor peace agreement, and we are close to finishing that, is my understanding. That came up earlier, and so I wanted to note that. So this is one of those items where there seems to be no satisfying alternative. You are disrupting and you are disrespecting me.
 You are disrupting and disrespecting me. Listen, we're going to get through the vote. Yes, you are. Commissioner Udaly, go ahead. Keep going, please. You don't know what I'm going to say or how I'm going to vote because I'm not being allowed to speak. You are disrupting and you are disrespecting me. Commissioner Udaly, go ahead and continue. It is not my decision to make. This is not a debate. There is not going to be public testimony. I would like to continue with my closing statement. Go ahead, Mr. Chair.
 There is no satisfying and viable answer to this issue. And I've been faced with similar situations time and time again. And sometimes I'm willing to vote, make a vote that feels against my principles, because given the situation and the constraints that we're forced to work within, it is the best decision. However, there are other times to take principled stance.
 I have expressed my concerns about the numerous human rights allegations against G4S. And I've asked for an analysis of what it would take, or I guess the viability of bringing our security in-house. And I have not received a satisfactory analysis of that option. At a time when we need to hold strong to providing protection to those in our communities...
 and the world who are being persecuted solely based on their nationality, we cannot allow ourselves to slip closer to supporting the current regime. I want to make something very clear before I give my vote. I support and appreciate our security team. I'm grateful that they have good stable jobs with benefits thanks to their union representation.
 That's critical to me, and I would not support an alternative that did not include the same job security for the men and women who protect us every day. But I believe there are ways that we can achieve both a safe work environment and a better world for others at the same time. We could, for example, create a hybrid security plan where the city directly hires a base amount of security officers for our primary needs and then contracts out to a smaller union-represented company.
 as additional needs arise. This could potentially overcome the extreme expense and the capacity issues I continue to hear as the primary reasons for continuing with G4S. In the end, I think we can do better, and we have an obligation to use public dollars to their best benefit, doing business with a company that,
 whose practices run counter to our policies, our values, our status as a sanctuary city is something I can't support. I vote no. Fritz, aren't you glad you let her finish? Aren't you glad you let her talk? Are you not going to let me talk? I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz. I'm clearing the chamber. We're going to clear the chamber.
 There's nobody here to hear it. What a... And... It'll be on TV. Viewers at home. It's all right. I actually don't have a really great speech, especially in comparison with what I've already heard from my three colleagues. Each one of you gave really good thoughtful reasoning, explaining to people, and it's really disheartening that people are not willing to listen and not willing to give others the respect of the time to speak. Support this contract.
 I am troubled, as Commissioner Udeli mentioned, by the things that are happening at the national and international level. If I dwell on that, I cannot sleep at night. And so I choose to dwell on what I can do for the city of Portland and for the Portland metro area, for the states of Oregon. Because that's where I'm elected. That's where I have the power to make choices that are in the best interest of the people.
 And I believe that this contract is in the best interests of the people of Portland. It's in the best interests of the City Hall employees, and it's in the best interests of people who come to City Hall. It's not based on the G4S contracts with other city, state, and federal agencies or their work history. Rather, their response to the request for proposals and our security needs.
 We don't currently, as has been mentioned, have anything in the criteria that gives extra points to a union firm or requires a labor peace agreement. Various offices are interested in exploring that, and we appreciate Service Employees Union, Local 49, and Felisa Hagen for pressing that issue. G4S1, even without that, so they would have been even further ahead if there would have been points ahead given for union employees.
 jobs and I very much appreciate the responsiveness Dorothy Elmore your leadership in guiding the security services and whenever Anybody on the council and certainly anybody in my office has raised a concern about a behavior or practice a particular person you have been very responsive the security people have been really responsive and we can require trainings we can suggest trainings through and and
 Ms. Elmore and through the Chief Administrative Officer, these are good people doing good work in very difficult circumstances and frankly because of disruptions like this it becomes a very nasty place to work at times and I appreciate the courage of the people who choose to serve us and keep us safe. I feel very humbled by the fact that they are willing to go into
 very tense situations to make sure that I am safe. And so thank you to everybody who does that on a daily basis. Aye.
 Wheeler well first of all I just want to say it is very hard to Continually balance the needs of people who are here who are being respectful in the chamber who want to hear the discussion? Who want to hear what the votes are and what the arguments are on? One hand and then on the other hand people who simply want to pop up and make sure that their voice is heard to the exclusion of all else sometimes repeatedly and I appreciate the way
 that this council has handled the situation, but more importantly, I think it's an excellent example of how our local people have handled security in this building. This morning we had a situation unfold before council session even started when we had the Rose Festival Court in the room. An individual basically sat on the rostrum there, started shouting loudly, erratically, and indicating that he had no desire to leave.
 I was watching the whole thing on my screen upstairs, and what I saw was our local security people being completely respectful, using good de-escalation strategies and techniques. This individual was...
 their faces shouting really horrific insults the kind of which nobody in this city should ever feel that they have to be exposed to and I watched our local security De-escalate the situation and after about 10 minutes or so the individual got up and he walked out no harm no foul. I
 And I think of all the ways that that could have happened differently. I have come to highly respect City Hall security and the security that's provided throughout all of Portland's facilities. The individuals who provide that security are very professional, and they are highly respectful of people. And, Dorothy, even you have been injured recently professionally.
 protecting us at something as simple as a community budget for them. And you shouldn't have to be injured, nor should other security guards. And I remember last year we had one of our security folks took a really hard hit in the head. That shouldn't have to happen, but they come to work every day knowing that they are going to have to be professional, that they are going to have to be responsible.
 full of resolve that they're going to have to control the environment and deescalate situations. And time and time again I've watched them do a really brilliant job of it. They are also represented, as has been noted by SEIU, Local 49. This is a local union.
 and these are local people. They live here in our community and they want what is best for our community. So I'm very happy to support this contract, international issues notwithstanding. I vote aye. The report is finally accepted. Thank you for your great work. Thank you. Next item, and you can go ahead and open the doors again if you'd like. Item number 467, the report.
 467, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the highest scoring proposer and provide for payment for campsite cleanup services for an estimated $5 million annually over a five-year period. Colleagues, I think we can all agree that this is difficult but necessary work to sustain and improve the livability of the city.
 If we don't conduct regular and thoughtful cleanups, we will have health and safety risks that could have impacts for the entire community. This is not a punitive measure. We're talking about safety, we're talking about the environment, and we are talking about livability. We're talking about things as basic as cleaning up leftover syringes that pose a public health and a public safety risk, and managing human waste.
 We know that there's good ways to do this that follow best practices, and we know that there are bad ways to do this that do not. We've learned that compassion and working with social service providers to match people's needs to existing resources is a model that does work.
 So, in order to continue this important work in our community, we need to update our service contracts. And that also means creating opportunities to find new partners that share our values. That's why we want to open up the solicitation process to new people who will work collaboratively with the City to perform the challenging, yet necessary work.
 Here to guide us through this discussion is program manager Lucas Hillier. It's good to see you again. Good morning. Thank you. Good to see you. My name is Lucas Hillier. I manage the city's homelessness and urban camping impact reduction program. I'd like to apologize for bringing an emergency ordinance today. It is my ignorance. I was unaware of the fact that we had to bring an RFP to council beforehand, and we're at a point now where...
 The 30-day waiting period and a second reading would put us close to where we'd have to discontinue service for a period of time. And Lucas, so today we're going to hear your presentation. We will take public testimony and then this will come back as usual to the council as a report. Is that correct? That's correct. Thank you.
 We're not... Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I thought it was going to come back as an ordinance so that we could accept public testimony on it. That was what I thought we were going to do. So it's an emergency ordinance today. Yes. But the ordinance would actually generate a report. So what we would be doing is authorizing the solicitation for a contract going to the highest bidder, but then it would come back to the council as a report. That's my understanding. Okay.
 Mayor, I'm sorry. Again, I've had conversations with your office that said that I would support this only if there was an opportunity for public testimony. And if the public's not going to be able to testify, I cannot support it today in its emergency ordinance form. Okay, so here's one potential solution. Thank you. Please sit down. Thank you. One potential solution here is that the next item, 468, this is the proposed solution.
 procurement code updates, it would remove the requirement for bureaus to obtain the authorizing ordinance to issue solicitation, which is what we're doing today, and instead it would bring the CPO report to counsel for authorization at the end of the solicitation process. So that means that rather than having the public comment now to shape a
 the RFP, it would actually come back commensurate with the procurement report for public testimony and then at that point the council would authorize execution of the contract. So we've proposed this as a change in item 468 but as of today this is city code in terms of how we do it. And so where are we Mayor? So we are at the,
 the initial phase which is authorizing the competitive solicitation. So we are not approving a specific contract. We are authorizing the solicitation that would then go out into the community for organizations that are interested in partnering with the city. Commissioner Fritz. Mayor, I believe that as the presiding officer, you do have the authority to allow testimony even if there's a –
 protocol that reports don't get testimony. So would you be willing to commit that if this does happen to come back as a report on this particular item, you would allow testimony? If my colleagues support the proposals under 468, which would include that opportunity, the answer would be yes.
 That's good, but that's not what I asked. As a matter of policy, no. Once we start picking and choosing which of the reports we want public testimony or don't want public testimony, then we get into the position where we have actually required one of our city bureaus to go out and do something legislatively. They have done what we have required them to do legislatively. They will come back and...
 then potentially change that. If you'd like what we could do, we could skip this item and go to 468 first and seeing what the will of the council is with regard to that issue, I could make a one-off exception, understanding that 468 would in fact change the process in accordance with what you're requesting. So Mr. Mayor, I do not... Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. You know, this is an issue that we know there's a lot of public interest in.
 And to frame it coming back as a report that doesn't allow the public to weigh in, I think is not in the public's best interest. I am concerned that if we do this today as an emergency...
 and then we just get a report back after all the decisions have been made, that does not feel like I am actually utilizing my position as an elected leader to effectively shape what happens with this contract. Commissioner Hardesty, there will be public testimony on this item today. It is open to the public to testify. And what I just heard was that you said as a one-off you would be willing to have it if 468 gets delayed for some reason.
 that you would be willing on a one-time basis at the request of your colleagues. I will make that commitment to you, assuming that that is what a majority of my colleagues want, that if 468 does not pass on this one issue, I will go ahead and do that since that is the will of the majority of the council. But I'd also like to just encourage...
 my commissioners to take a good hard look at the totality of item 468, which updates and streamlines the entire procurement and contracting process, including the issue of reports. Can I, can I ask a clarifying question? You may. Absolutely. And this might be for the city attorney. You just walked out of the room. If we withdraw this ordinance, this agenda item right now, and the next agenda item is passed, then this, this would have been a moot point because we can publish an RFP and, and then,
 take solicitations without having to come to council first? My point here is that if item 468 passes and the new procurement process, and again, what we would do, one of the code updates is we would remove the requirement that you're under right now, which is that you have to come to us right now just to authorize the solicitation of the contract and
 and we take public testimony at that time. That has been forever the way of the Portland City Council. And then it would come back as a report saying, okay, you guys up here at the rostrum, you told me to go forth, put together an RFP, you then follow up and say, what requirements do you want? And we either choose to provide feedback or we choose not to provide feedback.
 like we did on the, as was discussed with the last item, and then you go out and you find a contractor or contractors under the terms that we have established through that process, and you bring it back to us as a report, because we have told you to go out legislatively and do something very specific. And so what would change under the proposed,
 item 468, and I feel legal counsel twitching a bit because I'm discussing an item that has not been called, so I'll just speak very generally. It would change that process to get rid of this authorization for solicitation. You would actually come back and say, here's what we proposed, here's how we did it, here were the standards, here's who we've contracted to, and we'll take public testimony on that item. And that seems to comport with what people have been suggesting that they'd like to see done.
 Can we table this ordinance then until the vote? I put the question back to you. As the director of the program, do you have the time or do we have a ticking clock issue here? I mean, it would be my preference that we move forward. This is the way we have always done procurements. I'm good with that as well, yeah. I think it would be odd in the middle of your presentation we suddenly choose to go in a different direction. It's an important issue. Commissioner Fritz.
 And in order to move this forward, you are saying that if the other changes don't pass, you would take testimony on this one item as a report? On this item, yes. Thank you. I believe I've said that twice. Which I believe is what Commissioner Hardesty said. And I'll say it a third time, yes. Commissioner Hardesty. I think... Thank you, Mayor. Point of clarification. Yes. Yes. I'm so sorry. I think to take public testimony on a report, you can suspend...
 the rules through a vote of four members of the council, that if and when you get to that point. Even if the mayor says he doesn't want to take testimony if the rest of us did. I mean, this is a policy, we always used to take testimony on reports. Yes, this is a new policy.
 Well, if it's a new policy, it's not a new policy since I got here. This is the way we've done it since I've been here. So I'll just say that. The mayor, as the presiding officer, gets to choose the rules, how the meeting operates. And this mayor, from the beginning, has said he doesn't want to take testimony or report. So that's consistent. But I think for the purpose of moving this one forward, the mayor has graciously agreed with Commissioner Hardesty's request to take testimony once this comes back. Okay.
 Well, that may be true. I suppose we'll address it at the time. We can address, I actually believe we're spending more time on this than we need to because I believe it'll be a completely moot point.
 based on item 468, which I'm not supposed to talk about yet. So anyway, yes, Commissioner Fritz, I've heard you. I think you've heard me. I think we're all in agreement. We're good to go. Lucas, you're still here, thank God. Jump in, please. All right, thanks again. I have a couple more things that I would like to share with you all. We're not asking for any additional funding at this time to make significant program changes. The purpose of my being here today is just to ask
 for your permission to proceed with the competitive solicitation process for the continuation of Huckardt services throughout the city. Our existing contracts were written in 2014-15 and our scope of work and focus has substantially changed from that time. When these contracts were written, I believe the goal was to remove encampments. We now have a clearer and more data-informed goal of reducing the impact of unsanctioned encampments.
 The current scope is outdated and needs to better reflect the way that our work has evolved over time and has proven most effective in our operations and engagement with individuals experiencing homelessness. So, I view this as an opportunity for us to evaluate a number of different companies and to write new contracts that require specialized training
 that we have incorporated. Some of these are carrying Narcan and being trained on how to dispense Narcan, nonviolent de-escalation training. Lucas, could you explain to people who might not know what that, explain the significance of that, what that means please. So Narcan is an opioid blocker and it will reverse a overdose deadness tracks. So oftentimes our vendors are interacting with people who haven't interacted with folks in a long time and who are living in very remote places.
 So I think it's pretty critical that they're carrying this life-saving drug with them. We also Have started training folks on how to engage with neurodiverse individuals and people in trauma or in trauma response These practices are not currently required under our existing contracts but we find them necessary to conduct our work thoughtfully and carefully and
 We also need to update the contract amounts to reflect the increased service levels required throughout the City and on the recently added Oregon Department of Transportation properties. Though ODOT reimburses the City for this work, we are using the City's contracts and vendors and need to adhere to appropriate purchasing policies. Finally, contract funds for this solicitation have already been allocated through the City's budget process and through the ODOT Intergovernmental Agreement.
 We are not requesting any new funds. We simply need to update our contracts. Thank you for your time and if you have any questions, I'm here to answer. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Question. Commissioner Fisch. I'll follow my colleague. I just want to make it clear for the people in chambers who came in after we reconvened that we've moved on to item 467 and 466 has passed.
 the item on G4. So we are now discussing a competitive solicitation and contract with the highest scoring proposers and provide for payment campsite cleanup services.
 So in case anyone was coming back to talk about G4, that's over, we've moved on to the next item. Can you inform us of the last two votes? I'm gonna... That's on public record. Continue us please on this 467. Any further questions before we open it up to... Commissioner Fish, I'm sorry. So are we still operating within the framework of the so-called Anderson legal settlement?
 Yes and no. The legislation that enabled us to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with ODOT changed some of the timelines. Much of that is still the same. Under Anderson, we were required to give 24 hours written notification and that notification lasted for seven days. Under the ODOT IGA, which is now effectively state law, it is a 48 hour written notification period and that notification period is valid for 10 days.
 So I'm going to make a request. What we're talking about now, and we do have a lot left, colleagues, I just want to point out, and at 1 o'clock I turn into a pumpkin if I don't eat, so we're going to do our best. But what we're authorizing is a solicitation, and normally that doesn't get this much heat.
 But the policy questions about what kind of campsite cleanup services we do, are they legal, what framework do we use? I was on the council when there was a federal lawsuit settled and became known as the Anderson Settlement. I was directly involved in the negotiations along with the then Mayor Adams.
 The Oregon Law Center represented the plaintiff class in that lawsuit. There were Eighth Amendment claims and other issues that my colleagues are generally familiar with in terms of litigation. At least for my office, and I want to just make sure that other colleagues have the same opportunity here,
 between now and when you come back with the fruits of your solicitation, I'd like an update if I could on Anderson, a little refresher. Yeah. What is it we agreed to? Is it still good law? What were the various elements? I understand why the Anderson framework is better than the ODOT framework. That was one of the things that caused the legislature to allow us to be in the lead because we have better due process protections.
 But it's been a while since I had a refresher course, so I would ask for an opportunity to get that briefing on Anderson. Absolutely. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. My apologies that you were in the middle of us trying to figure out who was on first. I want to thank you for your due diligence. It's clear to me that...
 Dealing with this issue in the individually That we cannot expect that we would have up to 25 million dollars being spent on cleaning up campsites without detailed public engagement and involvement As when you spoke with me yesterday I mentioned to you that I'm very concerned that there is
 does not appear to be a path for people who are houseless today to be employed to help with this process. And so I have a vested interest in making sure that if we're going to give this contract out, that we are providing the most humane service we can possibly provide.
 And I know that you and your team share that mission. So it's important that the public knows that. I would never in good conscience just allow you to just sign a contract for up to $25 million that I'm not intimately involved in. So no disrespect to you or the work that you're doing. You have surpassed our expectations in how you do this in a humane fashion. Mm-hmm.
 But I need accountability and I need to make sure that we're not causing more harm than good. Thank you. Thanks. Commissioner Udaly. I want to echo Commissioner Hardesty's comments.
 Words my office worked with the mayor's office and multiple community partners, and I believe you To to come up with the more humane Practices and camp cleanups they remain controversial and I think that's why We're having kind of extended discussion about how this matter is going to be handled but I
 I have this flow chart. Unfortunately, I need a magnifying glass to read it. But I just, in the interest of sharing more with the public, we have come up with a risk assessment to identify sites that are truly dangerous to human life or significant environmental hazard. And...
 We've instituted a notice period and we partner with service providers. We store possessions.
 I can't go through the whole list, but we have made multiple improvements. Unfortunately, the most humane solution remains out of reach for us, which is having actual housing for all of these individuals. But I just want to thank you for your work on improving this process. Thank you. And for the public, could you explain the general process? Yeah. Thank you. Walk us through the whole process.
 Thank you. So we receive anywhere from five to 900 reports from the public a week about camping in various places throughout town. We try to de-duplicate those so we're not having the central city concern clean start crews running all over town to the same place twice in a day. With the help of BTS, we have a system to do that and a database and workflow management tool.
 So when a report comes in, we send Central City Concern out to the location, they pick up any garbage they can that's been identified as garbage by the folks that are living inside these encampments. They then send a report back to us, an objective risk assessment based on the amount of trash, number of needles, if it's blocking public access or restricting ADA accessibility.
 And then we base our decision on that objective report that we get from the folks at Clean Start. So at that point, if it rises to the level where we need to post and clean it, we send notification out to the service providers that are contracted to the joint office. We discuss some of the locations on a weekly coordination call that happens every Friday morning at 8 a.m.
 and then we will post and clean it. We, anything that is reasonably assumed to be of utility and or value, which is vague language from the Anderson Agreement, we kind of iron that out with the work, with the assistance of the Oregon Law Center to try to define that a little bit more clearly. We store items that are property or useful to individuals experiencing homelessness for up to 30 days in a centralized location two blocks away from a MAX station.
 Very good. Yeah. Thank you. Yep. Public testimony on this item, Carla. Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good. Two minutes each. Maggie and Charles Bridgecrane. Come on up. Welcome. Good morning, Commissioners. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Living in Portland, you sometimes have to hear nothing about us without us. This is about some people without some people. And
 One of the jobs of the citizenry is to, when we see fellow citizens or government officials
 digging themselves into deeper holes to tell them to stop that it's unwise. So we just spent an hour dealing with the report and procurement process. And when you vote yes, you'll be saying, yes, that was so much fun, let's do it again. Except maybe when this report comes back, there will be public comment. I think that would really need to be an amendment to this ordinance to say that if this ordinance passes,
 the review report for the expenditure that will be approved, we'll have a public comment period. So $5 million on a five year scope, $1 million for remediation, whatever, assistance in the homeless camp cleanup. One thing that pragmatically Lucas, I think he's really diligent, I think he even made it to one of Alyssa Kenny-Geyer's town halls out at PCC Southeast over a year ago,
 But here's the thing, once you budget that million dollars, how many times do you want to switch it off? Because we know that the homeless problem is extensive. Severe poverty, severe situations, a number of sites. So either you're going to have to allot it monthly, and homeless people will just be free after day X of the month, because you'll have spent your monthly allotment.
 or you'll have spent the million dollars in 10 months and the homeless people will be able to experience a reprieve. So I don't know if that specific language you're gonna ask for each of the individual RFP responders to address a million dollars for campsite cleanup
 talked about in a silo where we're not talking about how we're going to have less homeless campers is not, I think, generating a lot of confidence by your constituents. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor. Commissioner Hardesty. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, I just want you to know that this is a $5 million contract, renewable up to five years. It is not a $1 million, it's a $5 million contract.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Our share is 3 million and I think the county is too. Oh, the OGA. Yeah. Thanks very much for the clarifications. Good morning. I agree with Charles. Let's take that 25 million and put it into permanent supportive housing that has state licensed case management because unlike...
 the Joint Office of Homeless Services, which says 40% of the people are disabled, it's 90%. Now, we realize you can't admit that because that would be admitting catastrophic failure to house people who are disabled, but when you have HUD contractors who cherry pick, you get the most disabled people on the street.
 And, you know, nine beds added for behavioral health is like nothing. If you want to talk about the Bouchon building, never did you ask a disabled person for their input in how to make that work.
 I know, but I'm just saying $25 million to harass homeless people who are without housing because the state or the city or the county messed up in providing that housing is wrong. Thank you. Very good. That completes public testimony. Are there any further questions of Lucas? I have two.
 So Lucas, you just heard some testimony and I hear this testimony frequently that what your job is is to harass the homeless. How do you respond to that? Well, we try to reduce the amount of harm or trauma that the people doing this work on behalf of the city are inflicting on people.
 I don't know that it is, in good conscience, I don't know that I'd feel good to say that we don't ever inflict any kind of trauma because
 when somebody's living outside and somebody comes and tells them they have to move and we're gonna collect property, that's a traumatic experience inherently. And so what we've worked on really hard over the last couple years is training those contracted employees on how to engage with people in a way that's respectful and respects their inherent dignity. So it's very challenging and I think that some of the young men and women who are doing this work
 Um, uh,
 for some of the contractors that we have. A lot of them have experienced homelessness themselves. And so they take that living experience to inform their engagement with folks. I think it's been pretty helpful. And part of what you wanna do in this competitive solicitation is actually expand that training. And require that training. Right now, our contractors are doing that because we've asked them to and it's not a requirement. So we definitely wanna make that a requirement in the updated contracts.
 Very good. The second thing I hear about, we didn't hear it today, but do you arrest people? If so, how many? There, to my knowledge, since I've been working doing this for the city of Portland, there have been zero arrests for a Title 14 infraction, which is a prohibition of structures in public property. There have been arrests of individuals experiencing homelessness for other behaviors, but I don't
 To my knowledge, there have been zero tickets written or arrests made for a Title 14. As part of the cleanup process. Yes, correct. Okay, thank you. Colleagues need further discussion, please call the roll. Carla. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. I vote aye because I'm taking the mayor on his word that we will have public testimony when this comes back to the city council. Udaly. Aye. Okay.
 Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? I vote aye. Thank you, Lucas, for your incredible work. You're doing some of the hardest and most challenging work. Thank you. Really appreciate it. I thank you. Mayor? I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Commissioner Fish? I just want to do a little housekeeping for a second. As you said, this is probably our most jammed agenda of the year or maybe in some time.
 I want to make a proposal. There are a number of things that we have to get done. They have to do with fees, or they have to do with timely issues like open accountable and other things. Plus, we have four matters, I think, at minimum that were pulled that we're likely going to have to tackle. And then, you know, people are coming here in large numbers at 2 o'clock expecting we're going right into budget. Might I suggest, unless it's time sensitive, now that we've worked out 467, that we set over 468.
 to next week so that we can get to the stuff that's time sensitive. I'm not saying that 468 is not important. I'm just saying that if you look at the time allocations, you're going to lose your quorum at 1 o'clock. And I think there's a number of things we must get done. And I would just suggest that that could slide a week and we could get to the other stuff that's time sensitive. Is there any objection to that? No. I don't hear any objections. So, Carla, why don't we go ahead and do that. If you can read 468, we'll move it to next week.
 468, amend city code to streamline the procurement and contracting process. So we will move this to the regular agenda next week unless you want to put it as a time certain Commissioner Fish? No, I think it's fine. Regular agenda please for 468. Commissioner Fritz has asked that we do 475. We have somebody waiting to present on that so please call 475. Amend the open and accountable elections program.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, for accommodating our request. These amendments are intended to improve the Open and Accountable Elections Program. The biggest change in the code is the commitment from my office to continue to see this program's implementation. This program's success is and will continue to be a priority of our office, and the purpose of the program is to allow candidates to engage with many individuals with diverse backgrounds, regardless of their income and social status. I turn it over to Program Director Susan Mote.
 Good morning, I'm Susan Matei. I just wanted to give you a very fast update on program implementation. The program is ready for phase two of implementation for July 1 as planned when candidates can file a notice of intent to use the program, can receive a mandatory training on program compliance, and can begin to raise qualifying contributions.
 The program will be before the city commission on June 5. And I also wanted to give a quick technology update. That's the third phase of implementation. It becomes in September when candidates can start to apply for certification after the filing period starts on September 12th.
 Civic Software Foundation is helping us build a technology solution. It's the project is innovative and inexpensive, but it is being built in a faster timeline than is typical for the city, for a city technology project. We, there is a risk that the technology may not be fully developed on time, which we're mitigating by having a backup plan of full or partial manual implementation until the technology is delivered.
 And a consultant hired to perform quality assurance on the project delivered his first report to the TOC on Monday, and his ratings were all greens and yellows. He had five recommendations for the project, which seemed fair and were working to carry out.
 So now I'm going to move to the amendments before you. The most time sensitive is where the program is housed. The amendment would keep the program under Commissioner Fritz until the end of her term and have the Open and Accountable Elections Commission make a recommendation as to where the program is housed permanently. Okay.
 Another amendment permits certain penalties for the program violations to be paid not by the candidate personally, but out of the candidate's campaign account when doing so is the best way to make taxpayers whole and is in alignment with program values. Another amendment strengthens the term limits in the Commission for the OEA Commission members by eliminating a provision that allows a member to serve until they've been replaced.
 And the final section of amendments is the hearing section. It primarily does two things. It allows the program to have the hearings conducted externally from the program, which is a best practice in ensuring the objectivity of the hearings process. We're in conversations with the state administrative law judges to carry out that function.
 The second is to create an interim step before a formal appeals hearing Called a request for reconsideration that way if a candidate thinks a decision the program made was wrong rather than subjecting this Themselves and the city to an expense of a formal appeals hearing they can flag it provide more information And we can remedy problems quickly and inexpensively and Susan I think you asked me to move a substitute is that right yes?
 Could you tell us briefly what the difference between what we filed and what the substitute is? The difference is one change requested by the state administrative law judges. At present, the law has hearings needed to be scheduled within seven days of filing the request for a hearing. This would allow the administrative law judges.
 a bit more time, I think 21 days, or three weeks prior to the election, whichever is sooner, so that everything can be heard and decided on prior to ballots being mailed out. So I move the substitute. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Hardesty on the substitute. Now we have to take a vote to accept the substitute. Legal counsel? I'm sorry, can you restate? We have to take a vote to accept the substitute. Yes. Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Hurtesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? And I just want to add that all of the changes that we're proposing have been recommended by the Open Accountable Elections Commission and also working with the status Director Motte just said. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Substitutes on the table. I have a couple questions. Commissioner Fish? Aye.
 I want to focus on program management, which is 2.16.190. Mm-hmm. And it, under the amendment that's proposed, it would continue, the Commissioner of Public Utilities would continue to provide oversight until December 31st, 2020. Now is that the last day of her term? Yes. So does that, does that provide adequate transition?
 Why would you peg it as the last day of the term if there is going to be some measure of transition somewhere? Because we're going to be bringing something back in November, which will then change it again, but we didn't want to leave it hanging. I agree, but the recommendation is that the commission is going to come back to council after we've been through one cycle to recommend where it should be.
 in November 30th of 2020. Correct. So about a month before the D-Day. All I'm saying is, let's put aside the merits of where this is housed. To me...
 there are two important questions. One is where is it going to be housed? And it's certainly appropriate for the commission to make a recommendation. It's not binding on the council, but it is a recommendation. But the second concern is making sure there's adequate time for a transition. And these dates look very aggressive to me. I'm just putting it out there as a concern.
 The whole program has been very aggressive, just based on the timeline that we've had. And so certainly I think we probably will have a pretty good idea on election night how things have gone. There'll be a little bit of a wrap-up time, so I can commit to coming back to the council as soon as possible after the election, but we do want to have one complete cycle so that we're all aware of what is it going to take and so that the program has a chance to focus on the election rather than thinking about where is it going to be housed. So, again, without...
 getting to the merits of the amendment in terms of where it should be housed, it would be of comfort to me to know that sometime well in advance of December 31st, 2020, the Council has information upon which it could reasonably make a decision about where it should be housed.
 you know, figuring out between the election and the last day of the calendar year is something for us to think about. But the council's gonna need time to have information, to have a hearing on the information, to deliberate.
 And I just want to make sure we don't get jammed. Yeah, potentially we could have a work session after the primary next year to see how it's going. So that that could be part of the conversation. I think we'll have some indications after the primary as to how many people have qualified, how many have maxed out on the number of donations they've been able to get. So I can certainly commit to coming back to council in the middle of the summer for a work session. Thank you.
 Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you for bringing up that point, Commissioner Fish. I'm just kind of concerned that there'll be three elections happening in the middle of all that for this council. And I just want to figure out how we make sure that it doesn't become a politicized...
 kind of conversation. Uh, there'll be people that may have to, um, uh, excuse themselves from a vote if we're actually voting on something. So I'm not sure that we are ready to actually have a date in mind without having a more thoughtful work session around this. Um, so I would propose that we actually have a work session after we pass the budget, uh,
 this year before it's actually used to really have a more thorough conversation about
 where it lives later, when does it move, all that. I don't want to get into a fight around who's running and who's using the system and who isn't, because it is really a policy question rather than, it should be a policy question rather than a political question. That's a really good point, and that actually is why we're proposing to keep it into my office, and that's why the proposal is, because I'm definitely not running. So I think that's a really good point that there will be three seats open,
 And so I hear Commissioner Fisher's concern as well. If you could indulge and trust me that we're going to get back to council as soon as possible so that there will be a transition at the end of next year. We just, we have no, we're doing our best effort into getting it working and seeing how many staff are needed. I think that was some of the concerns that the auditor had, is if there's going to be a bazillion staff needed. If there aren't, perhaps you might be open to reopening that conversation. That's...
 but we want none, so we've tried it. Well, I absolutely appreciate the thoughtfulness. I...
 I will trust that Commissioner Fritz will do her due diligence and actually allow us to have this conversation, hopefully before we're actually smack dab in the middle of crazy season is what I call November, because I absolutely agree that November and December are really not good transition times just because it's the end of the year and we
 and we just don't know what we don't know until the January comes. So thank you, I appreciate that. If I could. Commissioner Fischer. And thank you for that conversation. I think that was very valuable. The second issue I wanted to raise is you said in your introductory remarks that there's a new QA person, quality assurance person,
 They've delivered a preliminary report that has some yellow and green. For those in our audience that are fans of the Technology Oversight Committee, yellow and green is obviously better than red. Okay.
 But it's even better when the Technology Oversight Committee or some independent body comes to council, walks us through the color coding, explains where we are and what concerns they have. So what's the next step in the process where we'll hear from Technology Oversight about where you stand in terms of technology?
 I believe their next scheduled meeting before you is in either July or August, so that is just shortly before our technology delivery date. Okay, but that's after the start date of the program? That's after phase two of implementation of the program, which starts on July 1. Phase one of implementation started in December of 2018 when the election cycle began, and we went into a mode of...
 educating the public and potential candidates, campaign staff and vendors about how to comply with the rules that began on December 21, 2018. So, you know, we're looking for technology delivery on September 1, but we are, you know, candidates can file notice of intent, receive a mandatory training and start raising qualifying contributions starting on July 1.
 Okay, so it sounds like sometime this summer, Technology Oversight Committee will come and give us that report. I think it is terribly important, particularly because there is the possibility that we'll have to go to a paper backup. There's at least the possibility that that could occur. That we have the Technology Oversight Committee provide guidance to the council about where we stand. And that should happen well before the full implementation of the program.
 Great, I'll just chime in a little bit. First of all, thank you Commissioner Fritz for your great work on this and thank you for the commitment to the Council that you will give us adequate time for a transition. I agree completely with Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Hardesty that we need that adequate time to both figure out where we are transitioning as well as having an understanding of where we are in terms of outcomes and performance.
 I appreciated the TOC presentation that we had a couple of weeks ago, and as I indicated, I was very concerned.
 by some of the comments made by members of the TOC with regard to where we were with the platform and I was also concerned about the quality assurance situation and it's my understanding that that Commissioner Fritz is working through those issues and the staff is working through those issues but I too would like to just ensure that we have the more than adequate time to be able to understand what issues still exist what issues need to be fixed if any and uh how the
 we ascertain where this is ultimately going to be located. Mayor, can I also... Commissioner Fish. It also occurs to me that there could be a budget implication. So to the extent that there is a different direction and it's more labor intensive, there could be a budget ask that needs to line up with a bump. And so what I would ask Commissioner Fritz and the director to do is map this out.
 What you're hearing from the council is they don't want to get jammed at the end of the commissioner's tenure with having to make a decision about where it lands, and we don't want any surprises this summer about technology.
 Whatever the information is we don't want any surprises and we want to be able to look at the full consequences of wherever we are in technology if you can line that up to make sure that we get adequate time to be Advised and consulted then that would satisfy me. I would also like to offer you know any council office we're happy to come and do a one-on-one update about implementation or the technology and where everything stands and
 when upon request excellent thank you could i ask carol cushman from the league of women voters to come and just make a few invited comments good afternoon welcome glad you're here excuse me the wheels aren't working right um i'm carol cushman and i'm representing the league of women voters of portland
 The League has been a member of the coalition that has worked towards hopefully a successful campaign finance program in open and accountable elections, and we are looking forward to something being able to get off to a good start.
 The coalition has continued to meet on a monthly basis as we seek implementation. We have been kept abreast of the possible need for code changes and have basically approved them as they have come. And I am here to state today that we are asking your support for approving these changes.
 We have I have also as a league member attended the Commission meetings not all of them but have been trying to keep abreast of what the Commission is doing as well and Hopefully all the parts are coming together to work for a successful program, which is what we want to have happen We do not want glitches coming down the path as we get there and
 And so we have been keeping involved and trying to keep informed of the steps as they are going. And we encourage you to support the program and its needs as it's going forward. Thank you. Appreciate you being here. And thank you for your patience. I know you were waiting quite a while. That's okay. Carla, is there other public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one more person. Very good. Maggie. Come on up. Two minutes. I don't see Maggie. Thank you.
 Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And let's see. We will go back to item number 469, please.
 469 approved fiscal year 2019-20 cost of living adjustments to pay rates for non-represented classifications and elected officials specify the effect upon employees in the Classifications involved and provide for payment colleagues as you know the City Council sets the rates of pay for all non-represented classifications and elected officials I believe that's twelve to fifteen hundred ish employees and
 This ordinance adjusts those pay rates based on increases in the cost of living due to inflation, consistent with the increase that represented employees will receive per their collective bargaining agreements. Nicole...
 Winia I'd You did so proud of myself for the from the Bureau of Human Resources is here to present this item. Thank you Nicole Thank You mayor. Thank you commissioners My name is Nicole Wienia ID and I'm with the Bureau of Human Resources Classification and compensation section and I'm here to present this ordinance providing a cost of living adjustment to all non-represented employees for the city
 This COLA adjustment of 3.9% is equivalent to the increase that represented employees will be receiving per their collective bargaining agreements. It also provides a 3.9% increase to nonrepresented seasonal and casual employees, except for when a greater increase is mandated by the state minimum wage. Are there any questions?
 Commissioner Hardesty. Mayor, I'd like to... Thank you. I would like to make a motion to table this discussion until this afternoon when we're having our budget discussion. I cannot in good conscience vote myself and my staff a pay raise.
 on the same day that we're voting to eliminate jobs at the low end of the pay scale. I think it's important that this be part of the budget conversation, and that is my request. Commissioner Hardesty, this is a non-emergency item, so we will not be voting.
 today at all, we'll be voting next week. This is a non-emergency ordinance. I do understand that, Mayor, but again, I think it's important that this is part of the overall budget conversation. So even though we will not be voting on it this week, it absolutely should inform our conversation later today. Commissioner Hardesty, would you withdraw your motion temporarily so I can ask some questions of, I'd like to use the hearing to get some information.
 Moment to I withdraw my motion. Your motion is privileged at some point, but can I, I'd like to ask some questions. Absolutely. I don't want to be disrespectful to your motion, but I also want to use the opportunity to get some information. How many employees would be impacted? How many non-represented employees would be eligible for this cost of living adjustment? It's about 1,400 to 1,600 employees. Okay. Okay.
 And what's the range of classifications? Everything from a recreation aid to directors. So entry-level all the way to most senior? Correct. And I, for example, canvassed my office. It would cover the entry-level positions we have at the front desk all the way up. I also asked for a printout of all the classifications, and in fact...
 It ranges from entry-level positions across the city in various bureaus and classifications to more senior positions. So it covers the wide gamut. Is that fair? That is correct, yes. Okay. Second.
 Is the purpose of the cost of living adjustment to ensure that people don't lose ground to inflation? Definitely. Okay, and has it been the historic view of the city both with its represented and non-represented employees that absent a COLA they would effectively take a pay cut? Yes. I checked with, let me give you a little history. When I was first elected during the teeth of the recession,
 we had some significant layoffs. And there was a lot of pain that got spread around. And a number of us chose not to take cost of living adjustments. And we did so effectively in solidarity with people that were having to suffer even more pain. Correct. My, excuse me, that's how I know my wife is calling, but I apologize, I should have had that off.
 My recollection is that regardless of the action that we take on item 469,
 It has been the practice of the city that we have until July 1st to notify HR as to whether we opt in or opt out as commissioners for the COLA. Is that correct? That is correct and that is included in the ordinance that commissioners have the option of opting out if they so choose. Okay. And that's a decision that each of us gets to make based on whatever our criteria. Obviously if people are...
 subject to layoffs and there's pain being a portion that may be a factor that someone chooses not to take a call what happens to the funds that are not expended on Cola if So for example if any of us choose not to take a Cola what happens to those funds? I would have to defer that question to the budget office. I'm Not not positive. What would happen to those funds? Okay, and I
 When was the last time that the city proposed a COLA freeze for nonrepresented employees? I would have to go back and look. I know there was a likely one around 2007, 2008 when the COLA was deferred until the following June. So employees received the COLA, but it was 11 months late. It was deferred.
 Commissioner Fish, if I could chime in on that matter. I was the chair of Multnomah County at the time and in a really unprecedented move, labor stepped forward both at the county and at the city and proposed the reduction of the COLA, the elimination of the COLA in order to save represented jobs and then we directed that nonrepresented jobs would take the same cut and it was at that point broadly supported in order to protect people's employment.
 And if I might add to that, Commissioner Fish, in 2013 and 2014, you might remember we also did not provide the color for nonrepresented individuals, and we used those resources to pay...
 Oh, what am I forgetting it? We use those resources for another purpose. And so this is not something that has not been done in the past. And it's not something that's unprecedented. As the mayor said, then we also had the agreement from the represented folks. So nobody got a cola. Right. So if I could also, I just want to confirm a number. I check with parks for
 and I asked how many non-supervisory, non-represented workers that are on the front lines would be impacted by this, and I was told approximately 65. Does that sound right? Sounds correct. So again, what I'm emphasizing is this is a, to the extent withholding someone's COLA impacts workers.
 It impacts people across the spectrum in classifications and within bureaus, front line workers as well as directors. And I want to just be clear that from my point of view, withholding a cost of living increase effectively amounts to a pay cut.
 and a pay cut for our workers, particularly singling out one group of workers and not having an agreement that applies to all workers for a particular purpose raises equity and fairness questions. Correct. Thank you. Commissioner Fish, related to that, as you'll recall, the council...
 unanimously passed the pay equity ordinance and that was to bring us into compliance with new state laws around pay equity and that caused us to shuffle the compensation structure and the classifications.
 And so there are now a number of people who are at the top of their classifications who will not actually receive base wage increases. So the only increases that they will receive are in fact the COLA increases. And as you say, it is in fact effectively a pay cut.
 If I may, Mayor? Commissioner Fritz. Hardesty, I'm sorry. I apologize. And they know what it's like to be fish. I actually want to challenge that mindset. What I think...
 I am providing us an opportunity to do is a, my motion was really about delaying this until we have our overall budget conversation in the past when we've delayed color increases, it just meant that as of July 1st in 2020, you would get this color increase as well as whatever color increase would be appropriate on July 1st, 2020. So it's not like people, the money is delayed and,
 So delaying a couple of thousand dollars from my paycheck as compared to delaying cutting jobs at the bottom of the Parks Bureau is a no-brainer for me. And so it is a question that I think I would like to have this council answer, and therefore I would like to restate my motion that we table this discussion until later this afternoon when we are in fact talking about next year's budget.
 I have a question. Commissioner Daly. Does proceeding with this item in any way preclude the conversation happening this afternoon?
 I just would really like to move on. So if there's no effective difference between hearing it now and hearing it later, let's just get it over with and move on. Well, if I could speak to the motion. This is the first reading of a ordinance. It goes to a second reading next week. Nothing prevents Commissioner Hardesty from making any motions this afternoon in connection with the budget.
 I'm gonna oppose the motion because I would like the ordinance to stand. I believe that it is unfair and I will oppose a delay in someone's COLA, particularly singling out just one small part of our workforce, particularly since it is a very diverse and spectrum of our workforce. And we can always take further action next week. So what Commissioner Hardesty has highlighted is she intends to raise some issues this afternoon and they are totally unconnected.
 This going to a second reading does not preclude that conversation this afternoon. And I'll make that commitment. Commissioner Udaly asked the question. The answer is yes, certainly this conversation can happen. I would rather not delay the presentation. But more to the point, I didn't hear a second to the motion. So the motion dies.
 Go ahead. Is there more to your presentation? Any other questions? That was, there's not much. Great. Public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have, I'm sorry, 469. Four people signed up. Lightning, Maggie, and Jianne Connett. Two minutes each. Name for the record, please. Maggie or Lightning, Harry. We'll go with Charles Bridgecrane Johnson then. Okay.
 And Carla, who are the other two? Are they not here? It was Lightning and Maggie. Okay, I don't see them. Very good. Would you like to start? I know I let him. Okay, very good. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Charles Bridge, Crane, Johnson. And, you know, I think it's awkward. I mean, first of all, we have just the general confidence in the elected officials that when we're seeing a booming economy, we're told that somehow out of everything that happens in the city,
 We have enough money to austerely allocate things, except parks. Somehow parks is in this odd situation where it's the one bureau that somehow didn't do something right, so it doesn't get to be fully funded and will have to experience layoffs. I realize that's a little, and these issues aren't really separable. We're just talking about public expenditures on great city workers' land.
 confidence of the constituents and their leadership. So I don't want to see anyone deprived of a COLA and I don't want to see anyone laid off. And it's amazing that a city that I attend their government meetings frequently that touts their bond ratings and creditworthiness cannot
 construct something to fill the gap and is not really seems uninterested in listening to what employees are providing the greatest quality of public service for the money. People that are supposedly doing gun violence reduction or people that are in parks helping our children and people from all walks of life have a higher quality of life. So I know there'll be more to talk about, but I really think that
 the principle of what Commissioner Hardesty proposed that the budget should be rock solid without any question of layoffs. And then we can look at how we're gonna help our hardworking city employees not have a net pay cut. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jeanne Kinnett. I actually wanna take seconds off my time because I wanna tell you this.
 Okay, I was born up there on the hill. I was raised over there in St. John's. And then I went to New York because I knew Dad would live in Cali. So I've had a pretty good life. I was supposed to die and be dead and buried in February of 97 from cancer. In November 1st of 96, they did an emergency surgery, and here I lie.
 So I want you guys to know that I ordered my coffin and planned on going to heaven, and I woke up in hell only because I saw somebody shoot dope, which is stuff I'd never seen before. I'm glad the city's getting cleaned up. That means a lot to me. But anybody will tell you, including my son, I have spent more time in these mountains than most people will in a lifetime. They are my sanctuary. They are where my soul rests.
 And here's God. And I have met plenty of people working in our parks. And they're wonderful people. And I don't think they're paid enough.
 And I don't think it matters about the budget in Portland. I actually think the budget in Portland should put them above most because so many of us Portlanders count on our parks and our mountains and our whatevers. So I think you guys should pay them as much money as you possibly can. And the fact that you guys are taking pay cuts, I'm really impressed by that. I had no idea.
 Good job. Oh, they didn't say they were. Huh? No, they didn't say they were taking pay cuts. You didn't hear that. Thank you for your testimony. No, actually, they said they had taken pay cuts. Years ago. Years ago. Right? Yeah. Years ago. Thank you. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. We have a couple of second readings. 470, please.
 amend contract with Brown and Caldwell Inc for professional engineering services for the Alder pump station upgrade project number E10359 in the amount of $85,000 second reading please call the roll fish. I artisty I you daily I Fritz I Wheeler ordinances adopted 471 second reading
 Revised sewer and stormwater rates are charges and fees in accordance with the fiscal year 2019-2020 sewer user rate study. Please call the roll. Fish. Mayor, I beg your indulgence because I'd like to make about a one-minute statement on this. Sure. Because the lack of drama around sewer and stormwater rates should not obscure the accomplishment of this moment.
 As the commissioner in charge of the Bureau of Environmental Services, obviously I'm very proud that this year we are proposing a 2.95% rate increase, which is below the rate of inflation. I'm also enormously grateful to my colleagues for the vote of confidence they have given us now over a couple of years towards our 10-year plan to sustainability.
 We have set a goal of becoming one of the first public utilities in the country that gets all of its assets up to a certain level. And we can't do that without reinvestment. And by allowing us to have rate increases in the 2.9 to 3.05 range, you've allowed us to make the investments in infrastructure and people that we need to keep our system sustainable for the long term.
 I want to especially call out this year, Mayor, since the leadership of the utilities is no longer unified, the strong partnership that we had at the Bureau of Environmental Services with Commissioner Fritz and the Water Bureau, and I'll remind my colleagues that the combined rate increase, two-thirds of which of your bill is water, sewer storm water, one-third is water, is about 4.5 percent. And what we think is we're providing good value.
 And we know from the charts that we presented that we stack up pretty well against peer cities. Actually, the proof that we're providing pretty good value is that we set a record this year. And we may have to go back and check the videotape. But this is the first year in my memory where we had not a single person testify at any public forum, including city council, in opposition to the rate increase.
 And I can assure you as we look back, not to the too distant past, this room would have been filled with people that had things to say about the utilities. We did not have a single person testify against the proposed rate increase. And I think that speaks volumes of the leadership of Director Mike Jordan, his team, and the 592 employees of the Bureau of Environmental Services who are doing such great work. So I want to thank my colleagues,
 I want to thank the Bureau. I want to thank our oversight bodies, both the Pub and the Cub. And we're on a good trajectory right now. It was hard fought. And my pledge to you is that we'll continue to strive for the goals that we've established with your help. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly?
 Thank you, Commissioner, and I want to especially thank you for your creative approach to assisting low-income households living in multifamily developments without unique meters. I vote aye. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for stabilizing the utilities and for all of your leadership on this great work. Aye. Wheeler? I remember those contentious hearings, even though I wasn't there, and the way that this was done.
 the way it was managed, the way it was handled, the way you comported yourself in your office was fantastic. The Bureau did a great work, I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. I'm gonna clear up all the second readings. 473 next please, second reading. Amend regulations for tree planting and preservation fund to improve tree planting program outcomes. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Ordinance is adopted. Item number 476 please. Authorize the rates and charges for water and water related services beginning July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020 and fix an effective date. We have 472 and 474 left.
 on the regular agenda. How long? Are we gonna take a vote on 476? Second reading. Yeah, I apologize. Please call the roll. Thank you. Fish. I got ahead of myself. Again, thanks to Commissioner Fritz for her strong partnership. Aye. Hardesty? Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Everything Commissioner Fish said and what Commissioner Udaly said on the previous vote, aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, do we have a sense of 472, how long that item would take, Parks and Rec?
 I think we could do it quickly. Do we have staff here? Let's go for it. Let's do it quickly. I'll tee it up. 472, amend fee schedules for tree permits. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, trees are an important part of Portland. That's an understatement. They clean the air we breathe, manage stormwater, combat climate change, and help make Portland neighborhoods greener. Portland Parks and Recreation's Urban Forestry Division manages our urban forests and implements Title XI
 tree regulations similar to other city permitting bureaus urban forestry assesses fees to fund the implementation of these tree regulations and Services today's ordinance is part of the annual process to update these fees The proposed changes have been reviewed by the development review advisory committee or drac and the urban forestry Commission both of which have approved Them I'll turn this over to Jen Cairo for a very succinct presentation. I
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'll be as quick as I can on this. My colleagues with me today are Casey Jogers. She is the Urban Forestry Supervisor for Regulations and Permitting. And Brian Lando, who's a policy specialist with us who does budget, among other things, including our fee schedule updates. I'm skipping down a little bit.
 So the fees we're talking about today help provide essential tree services to residents. They pay part of the cost of urban forestry performing its responsibilities as directed in Title 11, the city's tree code, and the urban forest management plan for Portland. Permit volumes have increased substantially since Title 11 implementation in 2015. This is good news in that it indicates property owners are increasingly aware of tree infrastructure management and are getting the permits they should.
 It also increases workload and customer service needs. You have in front of you a graph, it's also projected, that illustrates this challenge. The bottom axis indicates the fiscal year, and the vertical axis the corresponding overall tree permit volume handled by urban forestry. And you can see that's grown measurably over time. While the amount of work has grown, the number of people to do it hasn't kept pace.
 At current funding levels, urban forestry isn't staffed to fully implement tree regulations and meet customer service goals. The proposed update to our fees will improve our performance.
 For example, tree code compliance activities currently are largely unfunded. Consequently, about 2,200 trees required by permits are not being planted each year. For comparison, to give you a scale, that's approximately equivalent to twice the number of street trees in the Hollywood District.
 or the number of trees voluntarily planted each year by the city-funded Environmental Services Tree Planting Program, which is housed in the Bureau of Environmental Services and operates under urban forestry management and permits. These proposed fee levels have been set to satisfy customer service demands for an average three-week turnaround time for most non-development permit types. In the past, those turnaround times have been longer, sometimes significantly.
 The ordinance before you contains the proposed changes to the urban forestry fee schedules, Exhibit B, and I'll reference that now. The schedule is grouped into development situation permit types, such as building a new commercial or residential building, and non-development situation permit types, like removing a street tree in front of a business or a home. You'll notice certain non-development permits, for example, tree planting, are free or low cost to keep barriers to good forest management and code compliance low.
 Please note that the great majority of property owners only need tree permits once every several years. The fees are, in effect, spread over many years. The enforcement fees at the bottom of the schedule in front of you apply when violations of City Code have occurred. The fee in lieu of planting or preservation updates reflect the cost to plant and establish new trees.
 The care for the newly planted trees spreads over three to five years, and the trees planted will provide decades of benefits and services. Most of the new trees will be planted primarily in low-income and low-canopy areas consistent with the citywide tree planting strategy, growing a more equitable forest.
 A financial hardship waiver policy is planned for implementation in the first half of fiscal year 20. It's based on the financial hardship waiver program already in use by the Water Bureau and Environmental Services. Also in your packets is a letter of support for the fee schedule update from the Urban Forestry Commission. And that concludes our presentation. We'll be happy to answer any questions. Colleagues, any questions? Any public testimony on this item? Carla?
 Maggie and Jeanne Conant, they both left, it looks like. This is the first, any further discussion? This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. Thank you, it moves to second reading. Colleagues, I think we can get through a lot of this very quickly, 461 please. I believe Commissioner Udalli is returning it to her office, please read it.
 461, authorized contract with David Evans and Associates Inc. for the design of the Northeast 42nd Bridge Replacement Project in the amount of $2,009,884. Commissioner Udaly. Yes, thank you Mayor. We have asked this item to be referred back to our office and we'll bring it back at a later date. 459, who called that item? Hold it, sorry.
 Lightning pulled that one. Please read it and call the roll. 459, amend fee schedule associated with fire regulations. I think it goes to a second reading, Mayor. It does. Oh, you're right, very good, thank you. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. Moves to second reading, thanks, Nick. Next item, 455, who pulled that? The lightning also pulled this one. Very good, read it, please.
 Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for QBD Holgate located at one five nine zero southeast Holgate Boulevard call the roll No, he pulled it he pulled this so we voted on the consent without this I heartesty You daily I Fritz. Hi Wheeler. Hi ordinance is adopted four or five four, please
 revised transportation fees rates and charges for fiscal year 2019-20 amend transportation fee schedule and city parking garage rates and fix an effective date is Lester still here good Commissioner hardest deeds my understanding you had some questions on this one for five for Workforce training environment One
 474 is the regular agenda item I just read. Did you want me to read 454? 454, I'm sorry, yeah, 454. 454, authorize eight grants for the workforce training and hiring program to local pre-apprenticeship programs with a total value of $68,586. Commissioner Hardestine. Thank you, Mayor.
 This was one that I pulled because I thought how exciting that we're being creative and creating opportunities for high schoolers to get into the trades.
 And I thought this would be one of those kind of feel-good things that we would have an opportunity to say, well, gee, we're actually thinking outside of the box. And so this is not one to question what a horrible, horrible opportunity this is, but instead to say sometimes I love to see the creativity and the grants that we give, and that's why I wanted to pull it and have that conversation. Very good. Any further discussion?
 This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for your patience. Last item on the list, if I got this correct, is 474. Revise transportation fees, rates, and charges for fiscal year 2019-20, amend transportation fee schedule, and city parking garage rates, and fix an effective date. Now you're up. Commissioner Daley. I'm up. Thank you, Mayor.
 PBOT performs an annual review of the fees and charges for transportation services so that we are bringing before, what we are bringing before you today are the proposed changes to those fees needed to reach cost recovery of a variety of PBOT services.
 PBOT commissioned studies regarding the impact of fees on development and the impact of frontage improvements on property value. I wholeheartedly support these fee increases and permit types. However, in light of our ongoing affordable housing crisis, I'm proposing PBOT subsidize the fees for development review, building plan review, and temporary street route use for affordable housing developments.
 I have asked PBOT to create a 50% reduction in fees programmatically for affordable housing development and low-income owner-occupied residences. A lesser-known fact of our housing crisis is that 25% of homeowners are cost-burdened by their own housing expenses, and that is bad news for the city, and we want to do everything we can to alleviate their burden.
 The affordable housing reduction would apply to properties where the low-income occupants are someone other than the current property owner and either selling to a qualified low-income...
 Buyer or as a low-income rental property with a 60-year requirement for renters with incomes less than 60% of MFI Median family income this policy would also extend to low-income owner occupied homes Being developed where the current property owner intends to live as their primary primary residents and follow similar parameters to the LTIC Eligibility I apologize for all the jargon. No, it was a mouthful. Yes. Yes it was I
 I appreciate PBOT's responsiveness to my direction on this issue and I hope it makes a difference in making development, helping development projects pencil out better for the types of housing units that we need. Before I turn it over to staff, I need a motion to, I want to make a motion to accept a substitute exhibit D. Is that what I'm being asked to do?
 So you've all been provided with exhibit D. That's what I was told. And can you tell us in two sentences what exhibit D does? Exhibit D are the temporary street use permits for lane street closures as well as parking reservation areas.
 Okay, I'll move this. I'll move the substitute. Second. Thank you. So here to discuss this and the rest of the fee changes is Christine Leon, Group Manager for PBOT Development, Permitting and Transit and Dave Benson, Group Manager for Parking Services. Welcome. I'm sorry. So we let's go ahead and put the substitute on the table. It was moved by Commissioner Fish and seconded by Commissioner Fritz. That's right. Okay, we'll call Fish.
 Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Substitutes on the table I vote aye.
 Good afternoon mayor. We are commissioning you daily members of the council My name is Dave Benson and I'm the parking services group manager here at the Bureau of Transportation Christine Leon group manager for development term permitting and transit with people We're here today to discuss the revised transportation fees for fiscal year 2019 20 2020 I will be very brief on my comments and talk about parking fees before turning over to my colleague for her comments I
 There are no recommended changes to the on-street parking fees. We're not recommending any changes for the hourly rates at any of the Smart Park garages. However, we are increasing the full-day rates at most of the Smart Park garages except the 10th and Yamhill that is undergoing a major renovation and remain at $14 a day. Our changes are informed by a survey of the private off-street parking rates in the core
 The full day rates at the First and Jefferson garage will be increased $2 to $18 a day. At Third and Alder, Fourth and Yamhill and Nadeau and Davis will increase $1 or $2 to $16 a day. They'll all be $16 a day. In the garages where we have monthly tenants, we are also making some minor up-order adjustments ranging from $15 to $25 a month for the full month.
 There are no changes to the cost of any of the parking permits, and we're making one small adjustment to the cost of the parking kitty transactions, moving it from $0.10 per transaction to $0.20 per transaction to reflect our ongoing effort to adopt new enforcement technologies. Finally, there are no changes to the permitting costs for private for hire vehicles or towing rates. Thank you.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. I'm just curious, why do we charge different prices in different parts of the city? For Smart Park garages or the meter rates? Well, both. It's based upon occupancy. And the greater the occupancy, you adjust pricing to control occupancy.
 And it's the same for a garage or on street. So as you get up to the 85% level on street, and you'll hear this discussion next year now that we're gathering data and we'll be back with data next year, the places that are 85 or north of that, we might recommend a rate increase. And for those that are below that, we might even recommend a rate decrease to increase
 utilization or to decrease utilization. So that's why we charge different rates. And some areas of this, it's interesting because like at Lloyd Center, right? You can park all day for cheap. Yes. Right? How does this fit into our climate change vision?
 Yes, certainly we're committed to mode shifting, but when we talk about on street or structured parking, what motivates parkers is,
 the pricing. Certainly we have talked about adjusting the uses of on-street parking to other uses like street seats, like other applications, which would reduce the availability of on-street parking and would kind of force that issue. So I think of areas like where a university club is on Salmon right off of the Max line. They have free parking. They have a garage.
 And most parts of the city don't have free access to parking downtown. Correct. And so I'm just trying to figure out how do we decide where we put meters and where we don't. That appears to be an area with a lot of traffic, but yet those people aren't charged for parking. Why is that? You know, I can't answer that specific question. Are we talking about University Club downtown here? Yep.
 I mean, I'm talking about, it's not universal. What's the one off of Salmon? What's the Arlington Club or what's the...
 Anybody? Arlington? Is that what it's called? They have their own lot? Yes. They do, they have their own lot. So it's, I mean, it's not. But the street parking is also all free. There is no metered parking. All downtown is metered in a paid environment. Except for that particular location. I'm not aware of that. I'm not familiar with that, Commissioner. I can certainly check that out for you, but I'm not familiar with that one. I don't wanna take us off course. I was just curious, I thought you would know, because you're the parking guy, right?
 There's so much I don't know about parking. It's amazing. I'm finding out but no I'll find out for you Mayor and members of council. Thank you again for fitting us in this afternoon So I'm gonna go fast There's a lot of fees in front of you but essentially the fees outside of parking are covering the work that transportation does for development review right away use Construction or work in the right away as well as right away management there are
 They're under consideration in accordance with the city policy regarding cost recovery, and it sets the rates and charges for the beginning of the fiscal year, which is July 1st. Most changes, if there is a change, are due to keep the pace of inflation, as well as some alignment of staff time to do the program work or the permits. The proposal in front of you does not add any information.
 positions and it has been included in the mayor's proposed budget. Transportation permit requirements and programs align with PBOT strategic plan goals of safety, mobility, and asset management which are supported through equity and customer service values. Development, while it supports the economy, disrupts and impacts mobility during construction.
 PBOT issued 45,000 temporary traffic control permits last year and 17,500 temporary street use permits last year and coordinated this work through Keep Portland Moving. Development also contributes to building a safer and more mobile transportation network. And through permits built approximately $21 million worth of transportation infrastructure and 183 ADA ramps.
 With a focus on customer service, PBOT has made a number of efficiencies, including online payment and consolidating some of our programs. We continue with a number of affordable housing subsidies, which include a prioritization of those types of permits. We give them assistance at the counter and when they're in concept review. And our systems development charge, LTIC...
 and transportation demand management fees are subsidized, as well as our streetcar service has a low income fare. So as the commissioner has requested, we will take the additional request into consideration and come back with that at the second reading. But we are also considering a temporary street use fee that has a focus on a reduction with equity in mind.
 Overall, where fee increases do occur, they're about 9%. And those are related to the cost of inflation, the cost of doing services, as well as the cost of the Bureau to accommodate the staff. There are a few decreases and many rates remain unchanged. And just a couple other items to note. There's a community use permitting fee schedule that is now on the annual schedule.
 basis, that's not part of the program because that then allows us to consider the seasons for block parties and whatnot. Also, system development charges are included as a line item in Schedule C. However, Council does not need to take any action on SDC rate increases because those are not subject to Council approval. They are automatically increased based on inflation.
 Commissioner Udalli invited, excuse me, introduced a substitution. There are a couple of fees that are not included yet. We have not completed the analysis
 Film and video we have left off as a rate. We were waiting for the mayor's proposed to see what was gonna be included. At this point in time there are no rates, but we are proposing a 5% increase because we're gonna do substantial changes to the intake of that with Prosper Portland and the Parks Bureau.
 So I'd like to leave that with you. And then there are two other corrections that I would just like to note. On Exhibit B, the River Review is listed as $433. We're making a correction to $174. That's Exhibit B, page 3. And then on Exhibit C, pages 1 and 2, there are 11 items under public works permitting that just did not get carried over into the minimum column. That's it. Excellent. Thank you.
 Very good. Is there a public testimony on this item, Carla? Just Maggie and Jeanne signed up. They've left. They have left. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. And we are adjourned for a little while.
 Welcome. This is the Wednesday, May 22nd, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. And we're going to hear from legal counsel and the rules of order and decorum. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your name is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Carla, could you please read the first item, 477?
 Approval of the fiscal year 2019-20 budget for the City of Portland. Very good and colleagues I'd like to just make an announcement at the beginning of this. I know there's a lot of people here they want to hear our deliberation, they want the opportunity to testify and we will certainly make that happen but I also want to acknowledge that Commissioner Fish has
 an immovable commitment later this afternoon. And so I will probably call to a conclusion our deliberations no later than about 345 to allow us to have the opportunity to take the vote today on the budget. So first of all, I'd,
 like to just point out that we need to take a series of steps and necessary votes as part of the approval of the 2019-2020 budget as prescribed under Oregon state law. So some of this may seem a little bit arcane, but it is required by state statute.
 Specifically, as the City of Portland's Budget Committee, we will hold a hearing on the uses of state revenue sharing, consider changes to the approved budget as filed, and approve the tax levies for the fiscal year 2019-2020 year. Following today's hearing, we'll also convene as the Budget Committee on June 12th to officially adopt the City's budget.
 I'm proud to submit my proposed budget for fiscal year 19-20. This budget reflects on my commitment to housing and the homelessness crisis in our community, supporting equitable outcomes and fostering equitable prosperity in our community, fiscal sustainability and intergenerational equity in the way we support and fund programs,
 creating clean and safe communities, and improving and streamlining city processes and constituent response. So with that, I'm now convening this meeting of the City of Portland Budget Committee. Welcome, Director Kennard. Thank you. Good afternoon, Council. Jessica Kennard, Interim Budget Director. I'm here with Ryan Kinsella, our Interim Assistant Director. I'm going to begin with a brief overview of today's proceedings. So Council is now convened in your capacity of the Budget Committee.
 The approved budget is going to be introduced as a report to Council, and then action today is made in your capacity as the Budget Committee. There are several steps, as the Mayor alluded to, that you will take today, and they're required by budget law and include the uses of state revenue sharing, considering changes to the approved budget as filed, and approving the tax levies for fiscal year 19-20.
 There will be a hearing on each of these three topics. For members of the public who wish to testify, I want to highlight that the first hearing will be on the topic of state revenue sharing. The Mayor will then close that hearing and open a second hearing on the approved budget as a whole. To briefly walk you through the budget process thus far, bureaus submitted their requested budgets in early February. CBO then analyzed their budgets and requests. City Council then held a series of budget work sessions on bureau budgets and several community budget forums.
 The Mayor released his proposed budget decisions on May 1st. Proposed budget document was delivered to Council on May 6th. Council then convened as the Budget Committee and conducted a hearing on the proposed budget on the evening of May 9th, during which time the Mayor delivered his budget message and testimony on the proposed budget was received. And these steps were all necessary before entering the approved budget phase that we're in today.
 The first item of official business for today is to conduct a hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. I now turn this over to the mayor to introduce the state revenue sharing hearing. Thank you. I'm now opening a hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. This hearing is being held by the City Council of Portland, Oregon in compliance with the provisions of the state revenue sharing regulations, ORS 221.770.
 It's to allow citizens to comment on the possible uses of these funds in conjunction with the annual budget process. As proposed for council adoption, the fiscal year 2019-20 budget anticipates receipts totaling $22,466,522 from state revenue sharing.
 As has been the case in prior years, it's proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support fire prevention and police patrol services. Is there anyone here today that wishes to be heard on this subject of revenue sharing? I'm now closing this hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. Director Kennard, you're up again. Thank you.
 Alright, so today council is going to consider changes to the proposed budget. These changes are going to take two different forms. There are changes that are included in the approved budget as filed which are detailed in the change memo attachment B that was filed. There are also changes that can be considered by floor amendment. There are a number of parliamentary steps to this process and the City Attorney's Office has confirmed the following steps and procedures.
 First, we will need agreement from the Budget Committee to consider the changes that are in the change memo as filed. This is accomplished by having a motion and a second to consider these changes. Next, we're going to open the floor to amendments. Each amendment will need to be individually motioned and seconded. Then we will call for public testimony on the floor amendments, the changes in the memo, and on the budget as a whole. Further amendments can be made following public testimony. Next, we will need to vote on the inclusion of each individual amendment.
 Council will then vote to approve changes to the proposed budget as presented in the memo as amended on the floor This will feel like a vote to approve the budget But this is actually just a vote to bundle all the changes that councils individually voted upon Into one approved budget and then finally council will then vote again to approve the budget as amended. I
 Mayor, now is your opportunity to take the first step in this process by motioning to approve changes to the proposed budget as presented in the memo that was filed. Mayor Weill- Very good. I call to entertain a motion to- Commissioner Fisch. Mayor Weill- I move to adopt the changes in the change memo. Second. Mayor Weill- Commissioner Fisch moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds to approve changes to the proposed budget as presented in attachments B, C, and D of the memo approval of the budget for the City of Portland.
 At this point, we'll discuss changes to the proposed budget. As a reminder, the approved budget before you is $5.6 billion. The total general fund discretionary budget is now $609 million. There are 6,674 total FTE. In terms of new general fund discretionary resources, this budget includes $2.4 million of new ongoing general fund discretionary and $18.4 million of new one-time discretionary resources plus one-time carryover from the current year.
 Unrestricted general fund contingency in the approved budget as filed stands at just under 1.9 million. As a reminder, changes to the proposed budget were also considered at last Tuesday's approved budget work session.
 The changes to the Mayor's proposed budget that were included in the approved budget as filed include various technical adjustments in addition to the following changes to the general fund. It included $100,000 in one time for the Portland Dark Skies project, $270,000 in one time for the Anti-Displacement Plan, $250,000 in one time of additional funding for the Census project,
 $142,084 in one-time resources for a health and wellness coordinator in the fire bureau, $142,000 of one-time for the film office in Prosper, Portland, $150,000 in one-time for the office of rental services outreach, a reduction of $642,511 of carryover funding for the fire self-contained breathing apparatus, and a reduction of unrestricted contingency by $361,571 to fund some of these changes.
 In terms of changes to the recreational cannabis fund, there were the following changes. We shifted $50,000 of one-time and $50,000 of ongoing general fund from Mercatus, my people's market, to the recreational cannabis fund. Shifted current inclusive business resource network neighborhood prosperity initiative funding of $233,126 from general fund ongoing to recreational cannabis fund.
 shifted an additional 100,000 of one time and 94,000 ongoing for the neighborhood prosperity initiative also to the recreational cannabis fund and We increased ongoing general fund discretionary by three hundred and seventy seven thousand one hundred twenty six dollars for fires rapid response vehicle program And reduce the cannabis fund resources by the same amount these are the current changes to the proposed budget that are in the approved budget as filed and additionally the council may also consider floor amendments and
 In a moment, the mayor will call for those amendments. As a reminder, individual amendments to the approved budget should note the amount, bureau, purpose, and funding source. We have stock language available if needed. Each amendment needs to be motioned and seconded for discussion. There are currently several amendments that CBO is aware of and I believe have been distributed to you all.
 Once all the amendments have been moved and seconded, then the Mayor will call for public testimony. After testimony, there will be a vote on the individual amendments. Mayor, you can now call for amendments. Very good. I will call for amendments if you don't mind. Colleagues, I'd like to start with what I would call the larger package of amendments. These are amendments, some of which come from my office, some of which come from my colleagues, some from a sense of consensus.
 The first amendment that I would propose, number one, is a motion to amend attachment D to add the following budget note. Policy on stipends for advisory
 body members. City Council directs the Office of Community and Civic Life, working with the Office of Equity and Human Rights, Bureau of Human Resources, the City Attorney's Office, to conduct a thorough analysis of current practices and policies for providing stipends to volunteer members of City Advisory Bodies, looking both at existing practice for the City of Portland Advisory Bodies and examples of stipend policies and practices used by other
 jurisdictions. The Bureau shall present the findings of this analysis and a recommendation for a citywide policy on stipends for advisory bodies to Council by January 2020. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second from Commissioner Fritz. Number two, motion to amend attachment D to add the following budget note. Auditor's Office prior year underspending.
 Beginning in fiscal year 20, excuse me, beginning in fiscal year 2019-20, the City Council directs the City Budget Office to create a sub fund in the General Reserve Fund. Annually, as part of the fall supplemental budget process, CBO is directed to transfer prior year underspending in the auditor's office to the sub fund for the purpose of funding duties as charter mandated or agreed to by city auditors. So moved. Seconded by Commissioner Fish. Number three, Commissioner Hardesty.
 I'd like to amend the amendment that you just moved forward. Is this the appropriate time to do that? Yeah, certainly. I'd like to offer a line be added to that amendment that would read, the total amount of the sub fund shall not exceed $500,000. Any excess underspending of the auditor's office shall be included in general fund year-end underspending.
 As the proposer, I have no problem with that as a friendly amendment. Commissioner Fisch, are you still okay with the second under that condition? You're the sponsor. If you don't have a problem, I'm okay. I most certainly do not.
 Item number three, motion to allocate $100,000 in recreational cannabis tax resources to the Portland Housing Bureau. Allocate $100,000 in one-time recreational cannabis tax resources to the Portland Housing Bureau for records expungement for communities disproportionately impacted by cannabis prohibition.
 This action is funded by a $100,000 reduction to the recreational cannabis tax contingency, reducing the amount of unallocated cannabis tax revenues to $659,600. Amend attachments B, C, and E as necessary. Second. So moved. Seconded by Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Udaly for proposing this. Commissioner Hardesty. Second.
 Is this an appropriate time to ask the question about this? Sure. My question is why the Portland Housing Bureau? What expertise do they have in actually expunging records? I would think the Office of Civic and Community Life would be the more appropriate place. I don't know if Cupid Alexander is here or somebody from the Housing Bureau could talk about the expungement pilot. Is there somebody here? Maybe we could get somebody later in the hearing. I know that they did not.
 something similar last year and it was successful and we just wanted to support those efforts again this year and
 I guess for me, I'm just wondering why we're expanding activities of various departments when we actually have a department that does community grants. That, I think, would be a more appropriate place to be doing expungements. I'd like to call up Winta Yohannes from my office. She can better answer this question. Great. It's a last-minute amendment that we agreed. And Housing Director Shannon Calhoun's also coming down. Good afternoon. And if you could just state your name for the record, Winta.
 Hi, Juente Yohannes with Commissioner Udalli's office. So there are two expungement projects that are happening. The Office of Community and Civic Life does a larger grant agreement with Metropolitan Public Defender and then the Housing Bureau has also piloted another initiative last year.
 I think when we talk about the cannabis tax generally, we'll need to talk about how to bring together all of our contracts with MPD, but this is a friendly amendment that our office supports. And we also have, I see Director Callahan from the Housing Bureau.
 So this is what's called the classic hot seat moment. Commissioner Hardesty has asked the question with regard to allocating $100,000 in recreational cannabis tax resources to the Portland Housing Bureau. Why the Housing Bureau in particular as opposed to the Office of Community and Civic Life, for example? Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner, for the question. I can tell you about our previous work and our current work with expungement.
 We have been running expungement work through the Housing Bureau for the last two years with contracted partners. We don't actually do the work, but we contract out with experts to do it. So presently we're running a very successful expungement program with metropolitan public defenders in combination with Street Roots. And so we're working to get any Street Roots vendors who have any criminal backgrounds or anything that they need expunged
 taken care of so that they can advance both in employment opportunities and rental opportunities, which is really the nexus to the Housing Bureau. So that's what we've been doing. Of course, there are other programs, and I can just tell you that that's, I think, what the mayor has been intending for us to continue because it's been really, really successful in advancing people's rental opportunities in the city.
 Thank you so much for that, Director Callahan. My question is, so we are funding lawyers to do the work through Metropolitan Public Defenders to actually do the expungement work.
 Is that correct? We are funding the agency to do that and I believe that they're also using paralegals and other legal staff as well as using legal expertise when they need it. And I can get you more specific details on the program as it's currently configured.
 if you'd like. Thank you. I guess my big concern is that we have community organizations who are working with the populations who need the expungement service. And though I support paying lawyers, I really support giving community-based organizations the ability to work with clients.
 so that they actually are getting their records cleaned up. So I'm just concerned about whether or not the right people are getting the resources to support people who are going through this process. So I'm very much interested in more. And thank you. I appreciate the information. Thank you.
 Very good, thank you Director Callahan. Amendment four, motion to amend attachment D, specifically the budget note titled Funding for 311 to adjust the deadline for passage of resolution and to remove the bureau specific references.
 So it'll say this, funding for 311. The council is committed to establishing a 311 program for the city of Portland, but a decision point remains regarding the size and scale of this program. The council directs the Office of Management and Finance and the Office of Community and Civic Life to work with council offices on a resolution that confirms the details –
 including size, scope, additional FTE funding requirements and implementation timeline of the 311 program. The resolution shall be before council prior to October 1st, 2019, so that council agreement on the scale and cost of the program is achieved prior to fiscal year 2021 budget development.
 Upon passage of a resolution, the Council further directs CBO, the City Budget Office, to increase current appropriation level of the program to fund the one-time and ongoing costs of the 311 implementation as part of the fiscal year 2021 budget process. Second. We have a motion and a second from Commissioner Fritz.
 Item number five, motion to allocate $85,000 in general fund resources to Portland Parks and Recreation for the maintenance of transit mall planters. Allocate $85,000 in one-time general fund resources to Portland Parks and Recreation for the maintenance of transit mall planters. The funding source for this action is a one-time reduction of unrestricted general fund contingency. Amendment, amend attachments B, C, and E as necessary. So moved.
 Second. Second by Commissioner Fritz. Number six, motion to allocate $14,000 in general fund resources to the Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau for the Poets Beach Program Administration. Allocate $14,000 in one-time general fund resources to Portland Parks and Recreation to administer programming at Poets Beach. The funding source for this action is a one-time reduction of unrestricted general fund contingency.
 Amend attachments B, C, and E as necessary. So moved. Second. Second from Commissioner Udaly. Number seven, motion to allocate $17,000 in general fund resources to Prosper Portland for the Venture Portland project.
 effort. Allocate $17,000 in one-time general fund resources to Prosper Portland for Venture Portland. The funding source for this action is a $17,000 reduction in special appropriations for the Frog Ferry water taxi feasibility study. Amend attachments B, C and E as necessary. So moved.
 Second. Second from Commissioner Udailey. Number eight, motion to allocate $900,000 in recreational cannabis tax resources to the Office of Community and Civic Life. Allocate $900,000 in one-time recreational cannabis tax resources to the Office of Community and Civic Life for grants and small business development work. The funding source for this action is a $900,000 reduction in recreational cannabis tax fund contingency.
 Of this contingency draw, $659,600 is currently unallocated, and $240,400 is redirected from the Bureau of Transportation Vision Zero project, originally funded in 2017-2018, the fiscal year.
 Amends attachments B, C, and E as necessary. Second. We have a motion and a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Number nine, motion to allocate $133,000 in general fund resources to the Portland Housing Bureau's
 Rental Services Office. Allocate $133,000 in general fund resources to the Portland Housing Bureau's Rental Services Office to augment efforts around education, outreach and communication. The funding source for this action is a $133,000 reduction in special appropriations for the Frog Ferry Water Taxi Feasibility Study. Amend attachments B, C and E as necessary. Second. Second.
 A motion and a second from Commissioner Udailey. Don't worry, we only have 74 more of these. We're almost done. Just kidding. Just kidding. I write my own material here.
 Motion to allocate $35,000 in general fund resources to the Regional Arts and Culture Council for cultural mapping work. Eliminate $180,000 in one-time reduction to the Regional Arts and Culture Council and reduce $180,000 for the cultural mapping project. Allocate $35,000 in one-time general fund resources to the Regional Arts and Culture Council RACC.
 to design database architecture for the initial phase of the cultural mapping project. The funding source for this action is a one-time reduction of unrestricted general fund contingency. The city's contract with RAC will be adjusted as a result of this increased allocation. Additionally, the proposed budget included a one-time reduction of $180,000 to RAC, which has used the fund
 which was used to fund $180,000 for the cultural mapping project. The approved budget shall eliminate the one-time reduction to RAC and the corresponding funding for the cultural mapping project. In total, the project will be funded with $35,000 in one-time resources that is funded by a reduction to general fund unrestricted contingency. Amend attachments B, C, and E as necessary.
 Second. We have a motion, second from Hardesty. Commissioner Fritz, you have an amendment? I just have a question on the previous one on the RAC. Commissioner Fritz. It seems like we're not taking the $180,000 one time.
 So what was included in the approved budget as filed was a $180,000 reduction to the RAC allocation that was going to be used for the cultural mapping project as well as some other endeavors. And so they're eliminating that proposal, that $180,000 will go back to RAC. Where's that money coming from?
 It's part of the RAC allocation. So essentially the RAC allocation was reduced to pay for these processes and now the RAC allocation will be that $180,000 will be part of that RAC allocation. When I'm not so tired I'll need that explaining again. You seem very confident so I will keep going. I have a motion to, I move to allocate $70,000 in general fund resources to the Bureau of Development Services for historic resources review.
 allocate $70,000 of one-time general fund resources to the Bureau of Development Services, the subsidized costs associated with providing historic resource review, and allow fees to remain at levels better aligned with the type of structural change. The funding source for this action is a one-time reduction of $70,000 to unrestricted general fund contingency. Amend attachments B, C, and E as necessary. Second. We have a motion and a second from Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. I motion to increase funding for Portland Parks and Rec to avoid layoffs. I have two options.
 Option one, allocate $2,360,000 in one-time general fund resources to Portland Parks and Recreation. These funds will support staffing costs to help avoid layoffs of approximately 45 employees in fiscal year 2019-2020. The funding source for this increase appropriation is a one-year freeze, cost of living adjustment,
 cost of living adjustment for those making $80,000 or more. This change would save 39 jobs at Portland Parks and Rec. The city budget office will reduce compensation, set aside...
 the same amount, non-general fund bureaus should similarly account for reduced costs as a result of freezing COLA for non-represented employees. Amend attachments B, C, and E as necessary. I'll second the motion as a courtesy to Commissioner Hardesty and for the sake of discussion. We have a motion and a second by Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Number two, motion to increase funding for Portland Parks and Recreation to avoid layoffs, option two. Allocate $2,422,540 in one-time general fund resources to Portland Parks and Rec. These funds will support staffing costs to help avoid layoffs of approximately 46 employees in fiscal year 2019-2020.
 The funding source for this increase appropriation is one-time reduction and Portland Police Bureau's general fund appropriation of $2,422,540. The reduction is a compromise of $1 million reduction in personnel costs.
 for anticipated vacancy savings and $1,422,540 reduction in the body worn camera program. Amendment attachments B, C, and E as necessary. Again, I second the motion as a courtesy to Commissioner Hardesty and for the sake of discussion. A motion and a second by Commissioner Udaly. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you.
 Number three, motion to eliminate the Portland Police Bureau's gun violence reduction team by realigning general fund resources and staffing resources to other programs.
 Eliminate the gun violence reduction team by realigning $7 million in ongoing general fund resources from the Portland Police Bureau's Cycle of Violence Reduction Program to the Bureau's Emergency Response and Problem Solving Program and the Investigations Program. The realignment will support the transfer of gun violence reduction team officers and sergeants to patrol.
 and the reassignment of detectives to other priorities in the investigations program. Amend attachments B, C, and E as necessary. Second. We have a motion and a second from Commissioner Eudaly. Commissioner Hardison. Thank you. I will withdraw my motion number four and just leave everything else. Very good. Colleagues, so a number of these amendments impact the police bureau. It's my understanding that...
 Chief Outlaw is here and Assistant Chief Rush is here and possibly others. Would it be appropriate for us to address some of these police issues at this time? Mayor, I would like to make the case for why I think this is an appropriate reallocation of resources. I'd be happy to hear from the chief and other police personnel after that.
 I thank you, Mayor. I thank you, City Council members, and I'm very grateful to Commissioner Udalli for seconding so that we could have this conversation. As many people know, the auditor's office audited what was formerly the gang enforcement unit. We are now calling it the gun reduction... The gun reduction... Gun violence reduction team. Gun violence reduction unit. What we learned from the auditor's report is
 that came out in 2018 was that there is no criteria for Portland police officers to stop, detain, search community members.
 who they believe may be involved in gang activity. The auditor's report shows that 59% of the stops, and this has been consistent since we've been collecting data, are of African Americans in a city with a 6% African American population. This is totally unexcusable and it must be addressed.
 I am happy that we have this opportunity and this budget to talk about both how the community wants to be policed and whether or not we are using our limited police resources in a way that benefits all community members.
 I will quote from the auditor's report. We found that the police barrel cannot demonstrate that these stops were effective. This was because the barrel did not require officers to collect certain information and also did not analyze available data. Gang enforcement officers did not record the reasons why they made stops.
 The team did not analyze the results of stops, such as how many stops led to gun seizures or arrests. Officers did not record how many stops led to contacts with people who were involved in gang activity, unquote. We had just this week an update on the audit.
 that the auditor's office produced, and this is dated May 20th, 2019. What we find is that the name of the unit has now been changed. It is now called the gun reduction... whatever.
 But what we know is that we have the exact same officers who were not effective in stopping gang members now out looking for people who have guns. What we know based on the auditor's update is that, again, there is no criteria for who is being stopped. There is no analysis of why those stops took place.
 And what we know is, quite frankly, is that the police bureau has shown that they have no interest in being held accountable by the people that they are sworn to protect and serve. The only thing that has changed so far is the name of this particular unit. And it is my the gun violence reduction team.
 operates just like the gang enforcement team operated. It is using the same type of criteria to make stops. And one of my biggest concerns is that we continue to have this category that's called mere conversations. I've been having this dialogue with the police bureau for well over a decade.
 I am supposed to believe that people can walk away from a police officer who has asked them to stop, and I have never met a black or brown person who felt safe turning their back on a police officer when they have been asked to stop. Therefore, I think we have an obligation to make sure that everyone in this community feels safe in their interaction with law enforcement,
 And if, as Daryl Turner says, we are desperate for patrol officers, these 28 officers being retrained and put into patrol positions makes the most sense to me. I look forward to hearing from the chief and others about why this is not the best use of our limited public safety dollars.
 Commissioner Hardesty, I appreciate this conversation because there is much misinformation in the community about the gun violence reduction team and this gives us an opportunity to clarify it for the record.
 Commissioner Udail. Commissioner Udail. Before you move on to staff, I'd like to add some comments. Please. I share some of Commissioner Hardesty's concerns and I have some additional concerns. First, I just want to express my ongoing frustration with the Police Bureau and the lack of data, outcomes and ultimately justification for how they determine appropriate staffing levels and how they allocate their resources.
 As the Transportation Commissioner, I'm particularly concerned with the fact that Portlanders are about four times more likely to die in a traffic collision than they are to be murdered. Yet our traffic division is grossly underfunded and understaffed, while we have, I think, 28 officers devoted to the gun violence, sorry, the agency formerly known as GATT.
 And balance reduction, too. Thank you. Reduction. I'm going to write it down. That's a mouthful. Look, it takes a while for everyone. I mean, we get called the wrong names all the time.
 So, it's just personally hard for me to justify having dozens of officers on the gun violence reduction team when traffic division is so grossly understaffed. Additionally, I don't believe the concerns about racial profiling from the auditor's initial report have been adequately addressed.
 The concept of gangs is heavily racialized, and I'm concerned that the pivot attempted by the gun violence reduction team doesn't resolve the issues related to the over-policing of black communities in Portland. I want to acknowledge that some impacted community members appreciate the relationships they've developed with some members of the gun violence reduction team, and specifically appreciate the form of community policing they are bringing.
 I appreciate that this unit receives additional training on how to better connect with community, but I'd urge all of PPB to adopt these trainings and standards. There's no reason to restrict it to one division. We...
 I want to acknowledge the mayor, this is a complicated and challenging conversation to try to have amidst our budget hearing. I'm open to the notion that we may need a few officers that specialize in gang activity, because we do have gangs in Portland. They're not all black. They're not all people of color. There are white gangs as well.
 But I'm really struggling with the allocation of funds for this task force or team. Fair enough. Let me start by just making a couple of quick points as the chief and her team come forward on this particular issue. The first of which is I fault myself that my colleagues don't know more about this program. That's on me. It's my job to inform them about the program personally.
 I find it hard to understand how my colleagues could understand the substance of a program when they don't even know the name of the program. And so I think it's entirely fair.
 I think it's entirely fair. It was called the gang enforcement team. Well, here's the deal. It's not. It's the gun violence reduction team. In September of 2017, Portland Police Bureau, and this has been reported to the council, formally rescinded the gang designation policy. That was done out of request of the community. It was due to identification of that as being a problem by the auditor, and it was done.
 During the last year, significant changes were implemented in response to the audit on the gang enforcement team investigations and the get patrol released by the city officer. PPB does not utilize the at-risk tool, which is identified as the major problem with the old gang enforcement team. So the core platform that was used by that effort no longer exists.
 The auditor raised, I think, some very valid concerns, but not necessarily concerns I agree with. For example, the mere interactions that you mentioned, Commissioner Hardesty, you're right. This has been a huge issue for decades. The police bureau does not collect data on that. And the reason they don't collect data on that, think about the alternative on this. You're walking down the street and a police officer has a mere,
 association of mere interaction. Good morning. Do you really want them to collect your ID? Do you really want them to ask your race? Do you really want them to ask your gender and how you self-identify? I would argue no. That gets into the realm of creepy. Number two, the auditor identified some issues specific to data related to gang and sexual assault.
 nexus, gang interactions, we don't collect that data anymore. So there is no way we can possibly provide that information. So as you read the auditor dinging us for the collection of data, just ask yourself the legitimate question, do you really want that data collected? I thought that's what we moved away from and that's why we got rid of
 utilizing the most at risk tool. And I applaud the work that the police bureau has done over the last year to not only respond to the needs of the community, but to respond to the degree that they can and the degree that I believe they should to the audit. But I'd like the chief, she's our expert, I'd like her to come down and share whatever thoughts she may have. So Mayor, while the chief is coming up, thank you. I wanna clarify something you said first.
 I just want to sanction you on being disrespectful to Commissioner Udalia and myself. The second thing I want to remind the public of is that what is being called mere conversations are our kids in this community being asked where they're going, where they're coming from, having their backpack checked, asking for ID. That is not mere conversation. That is a stop.
 When black and brown people are confronted by people with weapons, they do not think that they are free to turn around and walk away. We know what the repercussions of that behavior is, and it is not pretty. And so I do want to have a real conversation about having accountability measures.
 from our police. And the fact that the police changes the name of our units, they change how they collect data because they do not want to be held accountable to the same standards that we set for every other bureau in the city of Portland. And so I am really...
 I'm disappointed, Mayor, that you would take the opportunity to take a pot shot at your colleagues. I want to keep this to the budget discussion, but Commissioner Udaly, I do apologize. I do apologize. To her, but not to me? I'm turning to you, and if you'd stop interrupting me, Commissioner, I could get to it. I apologize to you, too, but here's the deal.
 I have listened while we cast dispersion on the employees of this city and not give them the opportunity to defend themselves. Let's hear them out. Let's hear them out. I'm sorry, once again,
 Questioning staffing levels, allocation of resources, policies and procedures of the police bureau is not disparaging individual officers. I've stated time and time again that I respect the hard work of many of our officers. I recognize the work is stressful. It is dangerous.
 And I just refuse to allow this narrative continue from the union, the bureau or the mayor that I can't have differing opinions without dismissing and disparaging the entire bureau. That's not what this is about. This is about the smart allocation of our limited resources based on data, not on fear. Fair enough. Thank you.
 Commissioner, I apologize. Commissioner, I apologize. Let's get to the budget. Chief, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Welcome to our world. Thank you. So Danielle Outlaw, Chief of Police, Portland Police Bureau. I have with me Commander Andy Shearer, who is currently the commander over our Tactical Operations Division, under which the Gun Violence Reduction Team is housed. And I also have with me Captain Brian Ossinkop, who's in our Strategic Services Division that is responsible for collecting the stop data as it relates to the work –
 with GVRT. So I'm going to turn it over to Commander Shearer very briefly to give a little bit of background of the gun violence reduction team and then I'll turn it over to Captain Ossinkopf to talk about our efforts in stop data and the analyses of the data that we are collecting. Thank you Chief. Thank you Mayor, Commissioners for this opportunity. I'm going to go through some of the changes that we've implemented over the last year and a half or so primarily since the audit came out.
 In September 2017, the Portland Police Bureau rescinded the gang designation policy in response to community concerns about equity and fairness. That policy had been in place for, I think, almost 20 years. During 2018, we made several significant changes that were implemented in response to the gang enforcement team investigation audit and the get patrol audit by the auditor's office. Immediately after the audit came out, we ceased utilizing that at-risk tool that identified the most active gang members.
 We've since increased collaboration among all of our partners and stakeholders and meeting regularly with members of the U.S. Attorney's Office, Multnomah County DA's Office, the Mayor's Office of Youth Violence Prevention. Several months ago, we actually visited Oakland PD and met with the California Partnership for Safer Communities to learn more about nationally recognized best practices regarding reducing gun violence.
 In the fall, we acquired some very costly technology at no cost to the city of Portland or the taxpayers of Portland related to the National Integrated Ballistic Information Network. And that was through a partnership with Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms that allows us to use cutting-edge technologies that analyze evidence to generate investigative leads to help us identify serial shooters in our community.
 Since the fall when we acquired that technology, we have entered over 384 shell casings, reviewed over 1,000 shell casings, and test-fired 222 firearms that have been recovered by Portland police officers and entered into this system. As a result of these tests, we've generated over 80 investigative leads through our technology that connect multiple shootings together that occurred in our community.
 We've begun to review, track, and assign all shooting cases as part of GVRT, where prior to that we only investigated shooting cases that had a gang nexus. Because of this new approach, we increased the investigative resources by doubling the detectives in the division from six to 12.
 Communication has increased significantly. We conduct bi-weekly shooting reviews to review and discuss every shooting in the city with our state, local, and federal partners to better identify trends and interventions to prevent future violence. Additionally, that information sharing with the Office of Youth Violence Prevention has increased to help facilitate outreach services to those most affected by gun violence.
 2018 also brought the Portland Area Crime Gun Initiative to Portland. This is a partnership and increased communication and cooperation with many of our partners that I mentioned earlier. The goal of this collaboration is to conduct investigations aimed at preventing retaliatory violence, disrupting the shooting cycle, improving community safety, and promoting community trust in law enforcement.
 We implemented a policy of collecting and entering 100% of all recovered firearms and shell casings for entry into our new forensic network. And then in February of this year, the gang enforcement team and the gun task force were combined, and we named it the Gun Violence Reduction Team. The focus of the unit is to take a more comprehensive approach that aims to reduce violent gun crime rates in the city of Portland.
 The policy change began in 2018, but the name change took place in February of this year to more accurately reflect the nature of the work of the unit. Today the focus is solely on violent gun crime and not just crime committed by gang members as had been investigated in the past.
 Approximately two months ago, the Portland Police Bureau, in partnership with the Mayor's Office of Youth Violence Prevention, began a process with the assistance of an independent group that is reviewing the past 100 homicides in the city and the past year's worth of non-fatal shootings to provide an analysis of the state of gun violence that has occurred in the City of Portland. This analysis will help guide us in focusing most effective methods for violence reduction going forward.
 to include intervention and pro-social services for those most at risk or impacted by gun violence. Excuse me. To put some context around this, between January of this year and May 3rd of this year, there's been 130 shootings in the city. We are averaging almost a shooting every single day in the city of Portland. Now, not all of those does someone get struck. We're averaging about one person a week that gets struck, but there is gunfire occurring in the city that we know about at least once a day.
 It's entirely possible that there are more shootings that are even occurring in the city that are just not reported that we don't even know about. The gun violence reduction team has taken 90 of those shootings while they've triaged every single one and assigned them to detectives. The remaining 40 have been dispersed out among some other units to include the domestic violence unit, which took four shooting cases. Homicide have taken six shooting cases. Robbery detectives have taken four of them. And then the precincts have taken the remainder. Thank you.
 Since the implementation of this new gun violence reduction team model in October of 2018, the trend line for shootings in the city has trended downward. With two small exceptions, for the first portion of this year, we've realized each month has had fewer shootings than the month prior to it. This is a safety agenda that we've developed that I believe is in favor of this community.
 And if this was defunded, I believe there would be a decrease, not just in clearance rates of shooting, but probably an increase in the number of shootings that occur in the city. I don't believe that the patrol officers have the capacity to effectively investigate these types of crimes due to the complexity, the resources, and the time required to investigate shooting cases. These shootings, they don't just traumatize the people that are struck by gunfire.
 There's a number of cases I could talk about where houses get shot up, cars get shot up, children are home. People are missed closely on a regular basis. And when somebody shoots into a house and there's children sleeping on a couch and the bullets go through the back of the couch or through grandma's wall, to me there's a trauma that occurs in that household.
 that whole family on that whole street in that whole neighborhood throughout that whole community So it's not just about the people that are struck by gunfire It's about the people that are traumatized and impacted by this violence is occurring on almost a daily basis in this city Thank you. Captain Ops and come talk about our sector Commissioner Hurst II. Thank you. I appreciate your presentation Can you tell me what your clearance rate is on? on gun violence
 29%. We set a goal for 30% last year. We ended the year at 29%. That will come out in the Police Bureau annual report that should be out later this year. Can you also tell me how many white gangs are operating in the city of Portland? I can't tell you that off the top of my head, but what I can tell you is since we got rid of our gang designation policy, we no longer designate people as gang members in the computer, so we don't have a way to track that.
 However, when the auditor came in, supposedly in early 2017, you stopped designating gang members. However, the auditors that reviewed your files said that you still were keeping lists of gang members, and you also had a list of super gangsters that changed every 30 days. And you were providing this information to patrol officers so they could be quote-unquote safe when they were out in the community.
 How are you addressing those issues now that you're no longer keeping these records? It's a challenge because the tool that we used that would essentially assign a point system to people that had been directly involved in shootings, through whether it's forensics, seen a shooting scene, or been captured with a firearm, there was a point system attached to people just from those three factors alone.
 The people that had a lot of points over the last 30 days, we felt were at risk for either committing a shooting or possibly getting themselves killed because they were involved in gunfire and could be the victim of retaliatory shootings. Since we rescinded that, that's not a tool that the officers have available to them anymore. So it has posed some challenges to us.
 It is a tool that had no criteria, though. Based on the auditor's report, you had no criteria to determine whether somebody was involved in gang activity. So how good of a tool could it be if you had no, you could not articulate to the auditors what a gang member was and why there was a reason for a stop? So I don't buy the fact that now you don't have that tool, so therefore you can't provide that information.
 Just saying. Was that a statement, Madam Commissioner? That was a question. If you can tell me why that tool is so valuable when, in fact, you didn't have any criteria to use it in the first place, that would be helpful, yes. Well, the criteria for the tool, I mean, without getting into a lot of detail, was if you were documented in a police report either arrested with a firearm or at the scene of a shooting...
 you got points attached to you. People that had multiple points over a 30-day period rose to the top as being either as most at risk for probably being involved in some sort of retaliatory violence. So that was the point system that was used. And I'd like to say too, I think it goes without saying that we might have to agree to disagree.
 PPP at the time believed that there was criteria and the auditor believed that the criteria was not sufficient, which is why we got rid of the system as it was to make sure that we have proper accountability mechanisms put in place prior to that. I do want to give Captain Ossinkop though an opportunity to speak because I think what's really at the crux of this conversation, it's not what shouldn't be.
 throwing the baby out with the bathwater. The conversation should be how do we utilize the resources that we have to do the work that needs to be done with the proper accountability mechanisms in place. That's what's missing. With all due respect, chief, I think the real question on a table is whether or not we all experienced Portland police the same. And based on the data that I have in front of me,
 we have totally different experiences when it comes to Portland police. And so I need to have confidence that when the police sit in front of me and provide information, that I can actually trust that information. Do you know how often I get information from the police that is inaccurate? And when I get information from an outside source, it contradicts what I get from the police bureau. So that is why I am asking the questions I'm asking today. Thank you. You're welcome.
 very good anything further i think actually i'm sorry yes i do i want to address the stop data issue so uh so the portland police bureau is required like every other law enforcement agency in the state of oregon to report stop data to the state of oregon there's a house bill 2355 that tells us exactly it defines what a stop is legally and uh and the things that we have to collect regarding the stop like date and time location to stop demographics
 And so we collect that information on every single stop. I think it's important to understand that when you look at the definition of a stop, whether it's a pedestrian stop or a traffic stop, that it's a tension of a pedestrian or driver or motor vehicle that's not associated with a call for service when the detention results in a citation, an arrest, or consensual search.
 And so when we look at stop data and we look at disparity benchmarks in the city of Portland, we literally have three different ones depending on what we're looking at, right? So we have patrol, we have traffic, and then we have the gun violence reduction team. So for the gun violence reduction team, the benchmark that we use is gun crime victimization rates.
 That's the actual bench. We don't look at census data because it's not appropriate. I think it's important to understand that. Census data doesn't accurately measure the population of drivers or pedestrians in the city of Portland, which is why we don't look at that 6.1% as far as the population.
 When you look at those stops though definition of a stop the mere conversation doesn't fit into the definition the legal definition of a stop that were required to report to the state of Oregon. I don't know how much how far you want me to go. No that's it. All right that's helpful. I don't know if colleagues have any further questions. I want to be mindful of the fact that Commissioner Fish has to leave pretty soon. Commissioner I do I do have one more question. Thank you very much. Um uh
 I do know that the state definition between a stop and a mere conversation. How many years have you been on the force? Coming up on 25. Coming up on 25. And how often do black and brown people feel free to turn around and walk away when a police officer wants a mere conversation and your experience in your 25 years? In my experience over stops, in mere conversation, I think people feel free to leave.
 What people are those people? Again, folks, let's hear the conversation. I'm sorry. Can you really tell me with a straight face that you have never encountered African Americans or Latino people who are fearful of walking away when you've asked them to stop?
 Well, what we're talking about are two different things, right? It depends on if it's a stop where someone's not free to leave or if I'm just having a conversation, a mere conversation with somebody. I would say that, for the most part, people feel as though they're free to leave.
 So can I just say this last thing, because I know for the sake of time, I think that's a very subjective question and answer. And depending on who you speak to, we've and as all of you know, there are members who identified as part of gangs that actually spoke in favor of the GVRT that aren't in this room. So I think in fairness, we don't have all perspectives covered, but I would like to share with you what I want to say we are proactively going to do to make sure that we have accountability mechanisms in place.
 We are currently looking at an equity lens tool to apply to all of our strategies. And it's not just what you would see for budget, but looking at our deployment models as well when planning missions in communities affected by gun violence. We're also convening a work group that includes the city attorney's office, policy analysts, and GVRT personnel to investigate additional data points that we should be collecting. Okay.
 to understand not only why we're doing what we're doing, but how we're using stops and consent searches. I think it's important to acknowledge that, yes, there is a disparity there. And what we should be looking at is why. Why are African Americans being stopped, searched, detained at higher rates than others?
 specifically as it relates to searches and what hit rates or recovery rates are. So as it relates to consent searches, we're going to be looking at the information that we collect to make sure that we're pinpointing and that we're not just using...
 the laws Disparately and then lastly I think it's important for us to continue to educate community on their rights and knowing their legal rights as It relates to consent searches and when you can walk away and what a mere contact is So I want you to know that we're not just taking the information and shelving it We're being proactive and making sure that we're looking at policies to make sure we're not contributing to the problem
 Thank you, Chief, if I may. I just want to say I thank all of you for your testimony today, but I'm really disappointed once again that there's not an honest conversation about how communities perceive police.
 and how the difference between what may be okay in a white middle-class neighborhood is not okay when you're interacting with African Americans and Latinos. And the fact that you can't even acknowledge that there's a difference troubles me a lot. Thank you so much for your testimony. Before you go...
 I just want to emphasize what Chief Outlaw just said, which is that not everybody who's affected is in the room today. Thank you. And thank you for having members of the gun violence reduction team and former gang members, people who identified themselves as former gang members, people of color, made...
 themselves available to me and my staff. They talked about the importance of the presence of these officers in the community and what they do to deter gun violence activity. They repeatedly called out that the officers work really hard to develop a relationship with them, not just those involved in the gun violence, but with their families and communities as well. And they stressed how important this is when working with high risk individuals, keeping people safe. These are the people who are
 who are the community members who were reporting, that they would rather be stopped by somebody from the gun violence reduction team rather than another Portland police,
 Bureau officer because they know these office the specialist officers they officers know each person's story another recalled when an officer visited him and his family to offer condolences when they'd left lost a loved one and when we're talking about community policing it seems that the gun violence reduction team has been modeling this for years in developing those relationships
 So I heard loud and clear that if we end the gun violence reduction team, we better be prepared to replace it with something else immediately or risk leaving communities vulnerable. And so what we heard was that the benefits outweigh the imperfections, and I believe we need to work on fixing the problems. And I will not support defunding this program. So I'd like to move us on to public testimony. Thank you all. Thank you.
 And I want to reiterate something I said earlier. I'm not proud of my behavior earlier, Commissioner Udalli or Commissioner Hardest. I don't even recognize myself sometimes. This is a very emotional issue. It's an important issue. At the end of the day, it's a budget conversation. Yes. And I let my emotion on this issue get the better of me. You deserve better.
 Commissioner Udaly, you deserve better and I apologize. That is not the way I choose to comport myself and I'm disappointed and I'm embarrassed and I'm sorry. Now I do hear an opportunity here as well.
 I hope that what is clear is there is a lot of disagreement and there is a lot of difference of opinion about what the unit does and how it works and what it should be doing. That is a policy discussion and regardless of how the vote goes, I think we should engage those policy discussions and they should be public and we should talk about what's being done, how it's being done, how it impacts people in the community and then I
 we won't be put into these situations where we have to have these last minute back against the wall, tough and often emotional conversations. That's not a good way to create public policy. So that's my pledge to you. But most importantly, the relationships on this council are paramount to me, whether we agree or disagree or anything in between. So I want you to know that and I apologize.
 I'll accept it. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate that. So the best part of the day now comes down to public testimony. How many people do we have signed up, Carla, who'd like to testify on any of the budget, any of these amendment items? 57. Oh, just a couple. Okay. So let me suggest this.
 Commissioner Fish, could you come back around 7 o'clock for the vote? We'll still be here. Could you come back after your appointment? No. Okay, so we're not going to be able to get through all the public testimony today. Carla, we're going to need a different day. What can you help us out with? Let's have the Budget Office come back up. What are the constraints? They're talking about it. Give us some guidance here. Okay.
 So just so you know, I'm willing to stay as long as it takes tonight to hear the people that want to talk. I am too. But as I mentioned up front, Commissioner Fish's commitment is immovable. It is a very important immovable commitment. And I want to respect him as well. And he deserves to be here for these conversations.
 Oh, I'm sorry, I was just merely suggesting that maybe we could hear all the testimony and then we could have another date for the vote. Because I do think Commissioner Fish would have the opportunity to review the video prior to the vote as just a recommendation. Thank you.
 So, yes, City Council Ryan Kinslow with the City Budget Office. So one restriction that we have right now is that we've indicated to the Tax Supervising and Conservation Committee that we deliver approved budget to them this evening. And they've given us an extension until tomorrow morning. If Council, what is required today is that Council have a quorum and a majority vote on the approved budget. And so...
 Technically, not all council members need to be here to take the vote to approve it on to the TSCC. And just like for further clarification, the TSCC requires like I believe 20 days to review the city's budget before they hold a hearing on the city's budget. So that hearing is scheduled. We've basically worked out the dates for it, that hearing is scheduled for June 11th. And I think this is our final deadline for sending information over to the TSCC.
 Commissioner hardesty Commissioner fish first. Okay, let's hear okay Commissioner hardesty So I have a recommendation and maybe we take 20 people and then see if if the council is ready to deliberate and
 In deference to Commissioner Fish who has to leave I think for folks who for all the people who wanted to testify If people would just do a hands up or thumbs down as people are testifying to give us a sense Where people are on on the testimony that's happening. Is that a good option? I
 I mean, I support that. I think that the majority of people who are here to testify are testifying on the parks budget issue. We're well aware of the...
 community's position on that and although I know it's disappointing and frustrating to come all the way down here and not get to say your piece I think it will be said for you by someone else. Let me see let me uh Commissioner Fish. So in the spirit of what we're trying to work out here which is collegial and respectful I propose we jump in take the first 20
 pause, do some polling of the audience, so we make sure that people who are here supporting a position or not are identified. Then we go right into taking up the amendments. I've got a medical appointment that can't be moved, but I can go up to the river's edge in terms of getting to the hospital. So if I can be...
 Assured that I'm released by no later than 415, then I'm covered. That way, if we take the first 20, which I think we just jump right into and not overthink this thing, take the temperature of the room, take the amendments up, which will be a very, now that they've been teed up, is fairly fast. And then we go to closing statements.
 I think that's good and what we'll do is if you hear somebody giving the testimony that you agree with, please just give us a great big thumbs up so we know that your feelings are being registered and recorded. And then at the end, if there's somebody who's on an issue that hasn't been discussed, we'll ask them to come down and talk. Commissioner Fritz? Mayor, I believe we have people in overflow rooms. Is that correct? Yes.
 So could we please have some of your staff, one of your staff in each of the overflow rooms so that they can report to us about thumbs up and thumbs down? I'm getting thumbs up from that. Good suggestion. All right. So two minutes each. Name for the record. Obviously, as much as possible, be concise. Yes.
 In your testimony, Carla, call the first ones, please. Okay. The first three are Richard Fidesio, Jennifer Miller and Doug Klotz, and they'll be followed by Sam Sachs, James Paulson and Bob Giraldi. Folks, we're really on a tight timeline.
 Let's, the first person who sits down just take the mic and lead us, lead us forward for two minutes. Go for it. Hello, my name is Richard Fidesco. I'm the assistant general manager of the Rose Quarter, which includes the Veterans Memorial Coliseum and Moda Center. I know I'm late to the budget process, but we were just made aware of the potential 50% increase to secondary police employment fees, and I wanted to explain to you how significant and detrimental this could be for the Rose Quarter and the City of Portland.
 Collectively, we welcome over 2 million patrons annually to the Rose Quarter. Of the 300 plus events we produce each year, roughly 150 of those hire police through secondary employment. We value the significance the police have to our events, not only because they minimize the risk of these events, but they are able to engage with the community in a way that they do not often get to during patrolling the streets of Portland.
 By employing sufficient levels of police at our events, we relieve the strain that we would otherwise impose on the North Precinct if we were not adequately staffed.
 All this is to say the Trailblazers, Winterhawks, Rip City Management, and the Police Bureau have a shared interest in keeping the patrons who visit these public assembly venues safe from the unfortunate environment that exists today. We believe through this partnership with the Bureau that we are doing a good job of keeping our guests safe. However, we have more work to do to harden our city's most high-profile target.
 While we are sensitive to the understaffed nature and lack of sufficient funding for the hardworking men and women of the Bureau, the proposed increase in rates to staff the necessary police at the Rose Quarter events would be damaging to our operational budget. Should a catastrophic event occur, it would not behoove any of us to have insufficient police presence on site to respond immediately.
 The negative impact from a PR perspective, not only for the Rose Quarter, but for the city of Portland would be detrimental. The economic impact the Rose Quarter events brings to the city will not survive a major event. None of us could withstand the public perception of the Coliseum or the Motor Center are unsafe spaces to enjoy entertainment and civic events.
 As I mentioned previously, we greatly value our partnership with the Bureau and the services they provide the Rose Quarter and look forward to collectively finding a solution to all of our situations. I appreciate the time and hope that you reconsider the need for the partnership with secondary employment at events of the Rose Quarter.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Doug Klotz, Mayor and Commissioners. I originally came here to talk about Commissioner Hardesty's earlier proposal, which sounds like it's still very similar, which is to do not fund gang violence reduction team, terminate the body camera program.
 AND ALSO THERE WERE ITEMS IN THERE ABOUT REMOVING THE RESTORATION OF THE TABOR RESERVOIR, ETC. BUT TO USE THAT FUNDING TO RESTORE THE PARKS BUREAU BUDGET AND ALSO TO FUND AN ANTI-DISPLACEMENT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND PROVIDE FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY GROUPS. I SEE THERE IS A $200,000 ITEM IN THERE FOR ANTI-DISPLACEMENT BUT WE CAN USE MORE OF THAT. THE CONVERSATION TODAY THOUGH BROUGHT UP A MEMORY OF MINE FROM A NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION IN A WHITE MIDDLE CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE SOUTHEAST. AND IT WAS A VERY
 where the neighborhood officer was describing these, quote, mere conversation stops. I mean, that's a legal term, mere conversation. And he said, well, if we don't really have the legal ground to stop somebody, we use this mere conversation tool, and then we can get them talking, and maybe we'll find out something. We can then say, aha, now we have information to do a legal stop. So it sounded really...
 disingenuous, dishonest way to run a policing outfit. And using this thing is- Folks, can we hold for a sec? When we click our fingers, we make it very hard for the person to be heard in this room. When we use our hands, we can be seen in your support and your actions. So please, let's use our hands and not our fingers because it really does make it very difficult to be heard.
 Yes, we can. Yes, we can. I'll finish up. So anyway, so even as a privileged white person, I would feel hesitant to walk away when the police officer says, can I talk to you, sir? I am not comfortable with the way policing is done. Thank you.
 good afternoon good afternoon mayor wheeler members of the council my name is sam sachs i'm here today to speak in support of the gun violence reduction team over the past few weeks the narrative surrounding the gvrt is that all they do is target black people in our community
 I want to offer a different perspective. I'll start with the good news. Over the past three years, my organization, the No Hate Zone and No Home Marchese have held dinners once a month called Breaking Bread, Breaking Barriers, specifically focused on bringing together communities of color and the police to build... Can you stop my time, please? I'm sorry? Commissioner Hardesty, should I wait for her to come back? No.
 Sorry about that, a little disruptive. Specifically focused on bringing together communities of color and the police to build relationships and break down barriers. We've served several hundreds of thousands of people
 The unit has also attended blazer games, hockey games. They've been involved in discussions and two screenings of the hate you give, discussions with the chief and other officers about race and policing. These are not monsters hunting down black people in our community. These are human beings, fathers, coaches, and people they work with are committed to working with the community to save lives. Before I close up, I want to talk about one statistic that I requested from the city of
 In the last 10 years, there have been 247 homicides. 141 of those homicides were by a firearm. 56 of those were minorities under the age of 40 years. That's 40% of the homicides by firearm are minorities under the age of 40. We have a public health crisis in our community and that's something that we should address. Getting rid of the gun violence reduction team will only negatively impact communities of color. Thank you.
 Thank you. Is there a Jennifer Miller? Okay, let's go with James Paulson, Bob Giraldi and Grace Serba and they'll be followed by John Moore, Haley Schulberg and Moxie Wang. Sorry. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is James Paulson and I'm a board member of the Friends of Frog Ferry and
 I have a suggestion that might be able to help you out with your timing. We have a number of people who have signed up to testify, and we've talked amongst ourselves, and we could consolidate our group so that we could do all of our testimony in just a couple minutes if you guys would allow us to do that. Go. Keep going. Okay.
 Commissioner and Mayor Wheeler, my name is Grace Serbu. I live in Portland and I've been on ferries in other cities and find them a wonderful alternative to cars. When I heard Susan Blatholm was spearheading a ferry system between Vancouver and Portland, I got involved because it's a visionary and a very timely opportunity. As a city, we should take advantage of her time and the many people that are helping her.
 I consider this project important for the city to fund because for one thing, 900 citizens plus 80 industry experts and eight teams of citizens are already moving this forward. Bold projects have always funded, have always needed to be funded by the public and city endorsement requires funding.
 We're asking for $200,000 for feasibility studies. It's important that the city participate in the project. It is not a private enterprise. It is a city project spearheaded by citizens wanting to create a new, visionary, bold ferry system.
 But this is a time-sensitive opportunity. Folks want options in transportation and welcome the work being done by private citizens. But this needs to be a public-private partnership. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler, are you okay if we have our group approach here? And then that way it'll save everyone time. Just to stand, sure. Just to have you all stand so you can get a sense. I know a lot of us are in green today, including Commissioner Harnessy. Thank you.
 Thank you. So Susan Blad, home founder of Friends of Frog Ferry. I didn't start or set out to start a passenger ferry service, but our transit system we have today isn't sufficient. We know a healthy transportation infrastructure is central to a healthy community. We've provided you with 50 letters of support that you have in front of you and an outline of the interactions for the past 22 months with the city.
 Two years ago we wondered, would a public passenger ferry service work here? We learned it was possible, but our transit agencies didn't want to take it on. At every meeting people told me they loved the idea, that they wanted to help, and that I should lead it. And I asked myself, if not me, then who? We are a group of civically-minded citizens who believe that together we can bring an innovative, low-cost, financially viable, environmentally friendly new mode of transit to the region.
 Of our supporters here today, I only knew two of them 18 months ago. We can do this the Portland way, buck the traditional white employee base and create a micro-minority industry with a focus on hiring people of color. We can work with our public transit agency partners to augment our transit grid and provide more connections.
 We've delivered about $700,000 in value at no cost to taxpayers to date. We've coalesced nearly 1,000 supporters and stakeholders. We've convened more than 400 meetings. We have created eight volunteer expert teams in addition to our nonprofit board. After two years of doing the work and self-funding, we're asking for your participation to help cover some of the hard costs.
 Public transportation is expensive, but we can leverage your investment to match with other funding sources, especially federally. The cost benefit would be exponential for our region. And Mayor Wheeler, thank you for including us in your budget proposal.
 Again, I didn't start set out to start a passenger ferry service initiative But here we are and I doubt you grew up knowing you wanted to serve on Portland City Council But here you are we respectfully ask for your support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all of you for being here please Carla
 Let's see. I think I'm on John Moore. Oh, I'm sorry. I need to get Jennifer Miller with the eighth graders. I Miss them. Is it just one person? Okay, come on up. Sorry about that Did Bob Giraldi or Grace Serba was it grace John Moore you were grace, okay Hi, I'm Dylan Powell and
 I'm an eighth grade student from the Cottonwood School of Civics and Science. And though my class may not have been able to stay here this long, we've been working on a project called Project Citizen, where we identify a problem in our community and find a public policy service-based solution to it. We chose homelessness and hygiene as our problem, and we've been researching this topic for the past few weeks.
 According to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, in 2018 there was an estimated 14,476 people experiencing homelessness on any given day in Oregon. And according to Catherine Lindsay, around 16,000 in Portland. When you're living on the streets, hygiene is a big issue. You have virtually nowhere safe to put your belongings and nowhere reliable to shower and do your laundry.
 If you and your clothes are dirty, it can be harder to get a job and therefore harder to get off the streets. Everything sort of goes downhill from there and Portland's homeless crisis continues. We're here to ask you to vote yes to the proposed hygiene package on the budget that would allocate $1 million to funding for hygiene. Catherine Lindsay, in her report for the mayor, City of Portland Hygiene Service Delivery Expansion Strategies, outlines three possible places this money could go.
 These hygiene centers she describes will help people get ways to shower and to wash their clothes and go to the bathroom. It would be highly beneficial to our homeless population because it'll help them wash their clothes and therefore reduce trash. Because a lot of the trash produced by people experiencing homelessness is dirty or wet clothes. As with no way to wash or dry the clothes, it's easier to just dump them.
 It would also give them showers and safe places to go to the bathroom, which would help them get jobs, prevent the spread of disease, and reduce the time and money the city needs to spend to clean up trash and human waste. The money from this proposed budget could put a big dent in the hygiene problems that Portland's homeless population experiences and help make the city cleaner. Your vote would give us a big opportunity for us to help people experiencing homelessness because they can't solve this problem themselves and we have the power to help them. Their problems are our problems too. Thank you.
 Next three. I just want to thank you so much. You know how hard it is for adults to come and talk in this building. You attend a special school, and I thank you for representing your school so well here today. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Emily Goldenfield, Tommy Thompson, and William Ziegler.
 They'll be followed by Ryan Sotomayor, Christina Harris, and Troy Boat. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Amy Fox. I'm speaking on behalf of Emily Goldenfields today. So we were talking about a budget, and things have gotten heated. But as you know, a budget is a moral document. It says where your values lie. Okay.
 and what matters to you as a community. And in our community, funding parks is so important, having open spaces, having community centers,
 is the heartbeat of the city. And I know some of our community centers aren't as beautiful as the new giant ones that you guys have been building, but they're ours and they've been around, some of them for a hundred years. And they're what the heartbeat of our community and where we are. And just think about how hard Portlanders fought to keep the carpet at the Portland airport because it's part of who we are.
 Right? Well, these community centers are just that. It's the same thing and not funding them because
 they're needing repair, we've got to figure out something. We're asking for just one more year while we look for other alternatives so that we don't have permanent closures and privatization. There's got to be a way. There's so much money I see in this city, and there's got to be a way that we can figure out how to fund our community centers. Thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate it. Thank you for your testimony. So we should be with Tommy Thompson, William Ziegler, Christina Harris.
 Troy David win Mary England. I'm just calling some names. So if you hear your name either come down or be ready to speak I got a couple of updates also from people in the the overflow rooms There was a gentleman who testified against G VRT six thumbs up in another room seven people opposed to G VRT out of 18
 Four thumbs up for the testimony on hygiene. Good afternoon. Afternoon, thank you for having me. My name is Tommy Thompson. I'm a recreation leader for fitness at East Portland Community Center. In my time at East Portland Community Center, I've developed several programs to support our patrons. On Wellness Wednesday, I spend an hour providing free blood pressure screenings to some of Portland's most historically underserved and at-risk populations. Through the SMART program, I offer free wellness consultations, training plans, and follow-up sessions.
 The idea is to break down barriers to health. If our community is at risk for high blood pressure or diabetes, well, then let's bring the screenings there to our community centers. Let's give folks individualized attention so they feel successful when they leave the gym. You shouldn't have to be wealthy to get one-on-one training from a fitness professional.
 If we're looking at the current health epidemic from the perspective of improving equity and inclusion, it is imperative that we make the investment in our community's well-being by providing exercise professionals who can serve those who most need it. Unfortunately, the proposed budget, if adopted, will send us in the opposite direction, eliminating all recreation leaders for fitness positions in the city. The city of Portland deserves an award-winning parks and rec system. Since this has happened, this budget crisis, I've done my research around the United States
 Everyone bases their parks and rec system off of us. Do we wanna move backwards or do we wanna evolve? That's my question to city council. I think we need to evolve. Portland deserves and wants award-winning parks and recs and that's what we're doing for the city of Portland and we wish to continue doing that for the city of Portland.
 Thank you very much. Mayor. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Can I just, because I think we're gonna start hearing from some incredibly valued employees of the Parks Bureau and I wanna share some information briefly, which I think is relevant. We take very seriously this responsibility about the potential for layoffs and for losing valued employees.
 That's why in January we put a freeze on lots of positions because we were heading the wrong direction financially. We took a lot of vacant positions and we didn't fill them. We are working with Human Resources, Mayor, and your team very closely. We've come up with some very innovative strategies for how to retain employees. And I just want to share one piece of news. And this is not intended. I don't want you to extrapolate this information.
 you completely. But I asked, of those people under the mayor's proposed that might be subject to layoffs as of July 1st, which would be the first wave, I asked, what are we doing to ensure that we don't lose those people?
 So taking a look at vacancies within the Bureau, and that's before we look at vacancies within the city, because that would be the next step. Many people would have rights to look at vacancies within the city. But I'm greedy. I want to keep valued employees within represented positions that are equivalent within the Bureau. And I'm pleased to report to you that fully one half of people who may be looking at a layoff under the Mayor's proposed budget as of July 1st
 would be moving to positions within the Parks Bureau in equivalent classifications. So that's our first cut. That's the first thing we've done. Obviously, we can't do a lot.
 before the budget's actually adopted and we know what hand we're dealt with. But it's a sign of the good faith, it's a down payment on a commitment I wanna make to you because the people who do recreation services create great value for the city. And we have a plan and our goal is to retain as many employees as possible in other positions. Could I respond to that? I have 30 seconds left.
 Basically, so speaking to who will be laid off in July, that's me and the other fitness rec leaders. The city of Portland just recently started getting fitness professionals expertise in these departments to help run them and manage them. If you were going to open a bakery, would you hire someone to run it who doesn't like bread, has never eaten bread, and actually has a gluten allergy? That's what the city of Portland wants to do with their fitness program. You put it that way.
 Anyway, but it has been framed in terms of protecting jobs, which I care deeply about. I understand that. And protecting family wages. And what I want you to know is that the director and I have made a commitment to try to preserve as many jobs as we can within the Parks Bureau. Thank you. Yeah, Commissioner Hardesty. Just quickly, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for that. When I talked to Human Resources this week, they told me that 10 people would lose their job as of July 1st, and there were another 40 that would lose their job as of September 1st.
 So unless they've done something radically different than what they told me just less than 24 hours ago, I would be very concerned about whether or not those are real numbers or if that's numbers that are just moving every time we talk. Well, here are the numbers. There are 16 people that might be eligible for layoffs as of July. And I don't want to take away from people's time because we only have a few more minutes. Thank you.
 16 positions as of July 1st, if the budget's adopted. That's 14 that are occupied, and the Bureau has found seven positions within the Bureau that are equivalent classifications where those people could be moved. Those are the current numbers. Thank you.
 Anyway, please continue. Please. Hello, my name is William Zeigler. I've testified a couple of times on behalf of Parks and Recreation. I'll just get into it. 13 years ago at the age of 15, I started working my first job with Portland Parks and Recreation as a swim instructor, teaching preschool aged children basic swimming and water safety skills.
 I was a little rough around the edges at first, as many teenagers are, but as time went on, I grew not only as an instructor, but as a person. Throughout the next 13 years, I added a plethora of responsibilities and experiences to my plate. I helped run swim lessons for three years at Mount Scott Community Center, taught guitar lessons to people of all ages, helped navigate patrons through our scholarship system, and encouraged younger generations of parkies to be the best that they could be.
 Now 13 years later as a full-time benefited employee at the Southwest Community Center, I help run the rental department with a team full of supportive, well-adjusted coworkers. Today, we face losing the jobs that helped shape us into who we are today.
 The skills and services I have provided have literally saved lives of Portland residents. I've run into families of children I taught to swim and had them thank me for the skills their child remembered in dangerous open water. I've had residents cry tears of joy because of the support I've given them as a, given their family as a parks employee when they needed it most. I've even witnessed some of my past students grow up
 to be employees themselves. I'm not the only worker facing these cuts who have brought these kinds of supports to our wonderful residents.
 Throughout the 28 years of my life, I have fractured 82 bones and had 30 operations. I have a bone disease called osteogenesis imperfecta. But I always found myself lucky to be as optimistic as I am and also have a job that would take care of me if I ever broke again. The thought of losing these benefits and support overwhelms me with fear and disappointment. Thank you.
 Please reconsider your cuts to Parks and Rec. Losing the services we provide would be infinitely greater than any amount of money you could imagine. Thank you. Hi, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. For the sake of brevity, I'm not going to read this letter in its entirety, but instead the organizations and people that have signed on to it. Could you put your name in the record? Yes, my name is Christina Harris. Thank you.
 We have the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, the Metropolitan Alliance for Common Good, Verde, Oregon Working Families Party, Carrie Casciata, the Program Director of Urban Gleaners, Mary Margaret Wheeler-Weber, the Portsmouth Association Chair, Rachel Burden from Friends of Columbia Park, Gary Berger, Chair of the Hillside Neighborhood Association,
 Laura Young from the Northwest District Association, Julie Curran of the Selwood Community Center, Gail Hoffnagel of the Selwood Community Center, Kelsey Owens, community activist, Sarah Ionarone,
 from Mount Scott Arletta Neighborhood Association, Machu Williams, the board co-chair of the Mount Scott Arletta Neighborhood Association, Daniel Portis-Cathers, again from Mount Scott Arletta Neighborhood Association, Julie DeGraw from Portland Forward, Daniel Brown from St. Philip Nary Peace and Justice Commission, Rabbi Deborah Cronin,
 from As the Spirit Moves Us, the Peace and Justice Commission of St. Philip Neri Catholic Parish, Father Jack Mossbrooker from the Archdiocese of Portland, Reverend Dr. David Wheeler from the American, he's an American Baptist pastor,
 Joe Rastatter, parish leader of St. Francis Assisi Catholic Church. Reverend John Hassan Yeager, a Presbyterian minister. Reverend Connie Yeist from the First Unitarian Portland Church and the Oregon Unitarian Universalist Voices for Justice. Tom Chamberlain, the president of...
 the AFL-CO and others. Sorry. Thank you. I wasn't trying to go over time. I just wanted to say that although this room is small, thousands of people. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I just wanted to give some update. Number one, apparently I got the number wrong before. It was 14 in the overflow opposed to GVRT. All 18 in one of the rooms is for the community center. Very good. Community center, please.
 And oh, and I'm told there's only two people left in one of the overflow rooms if they'd like to move into the main chamber. I think we, we are, can people raise your hands if you've got empty seats next to you downstairs? We've got a couple. Yeah, we have room for people. So if, I don't know how many people are in, Lovejoy only has two people. I don't know how many are in Petty Grove, so if Mustafa could text me, but if it's just
 Great. And Council, I just wanted to let you know we did get an update. We talked with the Executive Director of the TSCC and if Council's able to or would like to vote tomorrow at 2 p.m., we can get that extension. So if you want to continue to hear testimony and have the vote at 2 p.m. tomorrow, that is another option on the table. I'm sorry that we didn't have that earlier for you. Okay, thank you, that's helpful. Jessica, according to the agenda that we have before us,
 This was originally scheduled for an hour, then we moved to Prosper Portland's budget, then there is another report, and then there is residential solid waste. So in fact, there's probably an hour or two of additional budget stuff that follows this hearing. It does sound that way, yes. And I think the way we've previously agreed, we're one or two panels away from actually beginning our deliberations. Yeah, because tomorrow afternoon isn't all that much better really. That sounds like it, okay.
 Thank you, though. Thank you. This next group should be Troy, David Winn, and Mary England. Please start. Go ahead. Mary, why don't you start us off? Hi, I'm Mary England. I want to ask you not to close the swimming pool at Columbia Park. I know you have a lot of budget considerations, but I'm a taxpayer, and I had to kind of look at it from a taxpayer standpoint.
 And that is, I don't, I've been told that Columbia Pool has a deficit, that their income does, exceeds the cost, and that's why you want to close it. Makes no sense to me as a taxpayer. I don't ask the police bureau to make money and cover their costs. I don't expect the roads to cover their costs by generating revenue. And I don't expect Columbia Pool to cover its costs by generating revenue. This is a public service that's in place.
 extremely important to the people in North Portland. I have to tell you that when I was seven years old, I live about two blocks from the pool.
 I walked over there and I learned to swim and that was 62 years ago. That pool was very important to me. I had a mother who was a chronic alcoholic. I learned at seven I could do whatever I wanted. I don't think she even knew I was over there. But I went to that pool every single day. It was in the summer because it wasn't covered, it wasn't heated. And the American Red Cross taught me how to swim. They sponsored swimming lessons at that time.
 I'm not, I didn't grow up unlike many kids in North Portland growing up today. Not everybody had a parent who was a drug addict or an alcoholic. But most parents in North Portland are struggling in one way or another, and they're distracted. And they don't have time to take their kids to swimming lessons, sign them up,
 go through the whole paperwork exercise or drive them over to another swimming pool. This is a pool that's really important and there are no private pools out there as well. So if you close this pool, you're going to be foreclosing the opportunities for a lot of kids that really need this pool.
 Mary, the mayor's proposed budget funds this pool for the next year. Only a year. We only do annual budgets, but I'm just saying he funds it for a year. I'm glad to hear that. I hope you can consider doing it from then on. Thank you. Hi, my name is Troy Broad. I'm a recreation leader, instructor.
 I've been working with Parks and Recreation for about six years now. I was made a full-time instructor two years ago as part of a union arbitration. The city was actually sued for having part-time workers do the work of full-time employees without paying benefits, living wages and benefits to those workers. So I was made a full-time employee after four years of part-time work.
 I've been working as an instructor for two years. There's a lot of, I don't know where you guys are getting your information, but I just want to clarify some things. You're eliminating entire job classifications, so there's no bumping involved there.
 All the instructors are being cut under this budget. And when I say instructor, you might think that I spend all my time teaching kids in a gym, but there's so much more that goes into my job. I'm maintaining facilities. I'm working the front desk. I've developed an institutional knowledge of this bureau that you're not going to get with a revolving door of part-time workers, okay? Thank you.
 These services are really important to the community. And if you make these cuts now, they're not going to come back to the level that they're at right now. Okay. Since the arbitration, I've been working with passionate people that are really happy about their jobs. And they're really happy to give back to the community because they're being shown respect by management and by you guys. But now all that's thrown into question. Morale is in it.
 all-time low at the community centers and I don't see how Parks and Recreation can come back to be what it is now if you make these cuts.
 This has been a really overwhelming process. I've been coming to budget hearings for months, and it's really hard for me to sit here and listen to people say, well, we're not actually cutting things, so don't get upset. How can you expect these people not to get upset about these things? These are our lives, and the services that I help provide are vital to the working families in this community that can't afford to live here.
 So it's mind-boggling to me that this is even on the board right now, and I'm really upset about it. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are... All right, so where are we on the list? Pardon? Where are we on the list? We are on roughly 20... Well, sorry, 10... That was the 12th person who spoke, I believe. Where are we on Commissioner Fish's timeline? In the next five minutes, we have to break to start voting on amendments. We've got a lot of talking to do.
 Maybe one more pet. Yeah, I don't think it's maybe possible for us to vote on this today I I don't want to shortchange the deliberation that we're gonna have So I think we may need to have a session tomorrow morning because this is this is vital I just don't think we can rush it. I think we have to give 24 hours notice Is there a legal opinion on that? so council could
 take this up tomorrow afternoon, although the agenda is full. Council can't schedule a meeting for tomorrow morning at this point. So maybe we should just move to discussion and voting now. I don't feel good about us just cutting off. All these people traveled a long distance to be here. Well, tomorrow at 2 o'clock, Commissioner Udaly has a whole presentation schedule that's supposed to last quite some time. So, I mean, that's what we're actually...
 functionally talking about. And there's a lot of people coming tomorrow at 2 o'clock to prepare to talk about rental protections. I don't know how our calendar got so booked for today and tomorrow. But, I mean, you know, I will always defer. Again, I think...
 Could we stay tonight and take all the testimony and then actually do the vote and deliberation tomorrow? Yes, you can. Yes. Yes, you can. I'm asking my colleagues. I need them to agree. I know you guys agree. You can. It does matter. Thank you. It doesn't matter.
 So, so I can do it. The question then is when are we going to deliberate and vote on the budget? I first thing, please. We're trying to deliberate here. Thank you. We're trying to make a decision. I,
 I'm deliberating right now, okay? Hang on. Let's let the commissioner sort it out. So the question is, actually, you know, I feel that if we try to do it now, we will be rushing through this process. I think we owe it to the public to take the time necessary. Okay.
 to actually do the appropriate deliberation. So if we hear all the testimony tonight, there's no reason why we can't take a half hour tomorrow at 2 to actually deliberate before we vote. What do you think, colleagues? Mayor, can we have a two-minute recess so I can go track down my staff and see if there's any...
 room to budge here. Sure. I don't know who we have scheduled to appear. It's a big deal. Well, I,
 And we have a time certain, so... We have a time certain at 2 o'clock, which is supposed to go for 90 minutes on 82nd Avenue. So it's not even the rental piece that's next. It's people who have been waiting for months to talk about 82nd Avenue. But I think my question is to Commissioner Fish, as the person who's challenged with medical issues and has been heroic in how you've been able to keep pace with the schedule, which...
 I'm exhausted by it and I don't know how you keep doing it. What's your preference on how to act? Well, we've had extensive public hearings on all these issues. My preference, because I know tomorrow is a jammed afternoon and we're just going to make it even more jammed, is that we take another panel and then move to deliberation. I think I...
 With all due respect, we are well-versed in all the issues. People have done an effective job of advocacy at our public forums and at our council meetings. We can have people stand and identify themselves around issues, but I think kicking the can to tomorrow just creates another problem tomorrow. And I agree with Commissioner Hardesty. I wish we were not in a predicament where all this stuff is piling on, but it is what it is.
 Colleagues? I think, can we take a five minute break? Well, I have gotten a response from staff. I'd be perfectly willing to move the hearing, the second reading on fair access and renting, which is scheduled time certain for three o'clock tomorrow. It's been significantly delayed already, so I would wanna find out what the next time certain we could get is.
 and not have further delays. That's really gracious. Thank you. I know how important that project is to you. Thank you. Are you suggesting that we take up the budget at 3 o'clock? I'm just trying to open up a slot. We do that. Sure, whatever needs to happen tomorrow. And what's the time certain at 2, Commissioner Fritz? It's 82nd Avenue Planning and Zoning Plan, which has been noticed. Okay.
 So the options are to compress this hearing and get a quick vote or to reschedule this for tomorrow at 3 and Council... To continue it. Continue it. And we have been advised by the tax supervision, whatever it's called, that... Jessica. The people that we answered to in terms of budgeting. They have said that a vote tomorrow is as good as a vote tonight.
 Yes, they have said that. You have that flexibility. You have the flexibility to have a vote tomorrow. I believe that the primary constraint, as you have been discussing, is the amount of time that's available tomorrow. So that's why testimony would be taken today and it would just be a vote tomorrow. So if I understand correctly, Commissioner Udaly is very graciously willing to put off fair for a bit. A short bit, yeah. A short bit. Then we would continue this hearing to 3 p.m. tomorrow.
 I will continue to vote. I think it's 3.30. I think 82nd asked for a slightly longer. Oh, it's 3.30? Yeah, that's correct. 3.30. Yes. And many of us can stay to hear the testimony tonight, which I'm sure Commissioner Fish could review.
 You're going to have a quorum to hear the testimony tonight. Plus, you also have three other budget matters to follow. Good. Okay, good. So here's the review of what we've decided to do. So we are not going to take the vote on the budget today or take the vote on the amendments today. We will take that vote tomorrow at 3.30.
 Those of us who can stick around right now will stick around and continue to hear public testimony. At the end of today, we're not going to vote, but we will continue the hearing to tomorrow. But if you are not here testifying today, you will not have the opportunity tomorrow, just to be super clear. Today is the testimony.
 And to be clear, there's an additional time certain that was scheduled for 3 p.m. today to adopt the approve the annual budget for prosper Portland Because I was a time certain my understanding is that we would need to open that that item Um, you could do the same thing where you take testimony, but then continue the vote for it. Yeah, and I don't anticipate nearly as as as
 No disrespect, I don't. Just to be clear, we're going to close, we're going to take testimony but then close the record on the budget today. I believe you'll probably continue the meeting until tomorrow. Once testimony is complete. Correct. Very good. Because the only thing left tomorrow will be a vote on the amendments, which include budget notes, and then a vote on the budget and closing statements. Correct. Am I correct on that? That is correct.
 And there's tax levies as well, but yes. Okay, so we can continue then with public testimony. Sorry, everybody, thank you for bearing with us while we sort this out. And I want to give a special thanks to Commissioner Udaly. She's been working on her presentation for tomorrow for many, many months, and her willingness to be flexible so that we can have a thorough public vetting of the budget is to be commended, and I appreciate it. Thank you.
 And if I might suggest that schedulers get working, I just talked to Commission Daily and some thought that an evening hearing, either a Wednesday or Thursday. So while we're hearing the rest of the testimony, perhaps schedulers could be working with the Council Clerk's Office to see if there's a potential date, because I would think we would need to announce that. We have a chance to speak for just a second. We've been here a really long time and they're losing it. People with kids, come on up. Great. No, please.
 Sorry, we usually, they're doing very well. They're doing really well. We were in the first overflow room, and then we were in the balcony, and then my daughter Liberty here has had about enough. She's had enough. Very good. She's had enough. Hello, Liberty. I would really, really, really appreciate- Your name's the record man? My name is Kelsey Owens. I'm here on behalf of Parks and Rec, and specifically Selwood, where my family and my son here are in preschool five days a week.
 I actually have a question for all of you and I know how Commissioner Hardesty feels on this But what is the plan for families who are already signed up for next year? What's the plan? What are what are we? I mean we registered in time. I was up at 7 a.m. that morning to make sure I got a spot because it's competitive and
 There are wait lists already at Selwood. At Mount Scott, at Southwest Community Center, and at Woodstock, there are wait lists. And that doesn't include the families at Selwood who are about to get the carpet completely pulled out from underneath them. What's the plan? Mr. Wheeler, I've called your office, and when I've asked specifically, is there a contingency plan...
 The answer has been there is no contingency plan and that's from your staff and I recorded it Well to be clear first of all just just for the record I don't know what I'm not the parks Commissioner. I know so I Calling when I was hoping that my influence and the influence of others would have perhaps
 perhaps swayed you to propose something different from Commissioner Fish's proposal a couple months ago. So that's when I had that conversation. I've given it my level best shot on the proposed and you can certainly disagree with it. And this is your opportunity to say that you do. Well, Ms. Hardesty's amendment addresses this issue and it would save us for one more year where we can find other options for the following year, but for 2019 and 2020, Mr. Fish,
 What do you suggest I do with Xander five days a week in the morning when I'm supposed to be studying to go back to school in the fall? What should I do? I'm really, I'm genuinely asking you. And I've asked, I've asked all of your staff, actually. I'm getting to know the people who answer the phone on a first name basis at this point because I'm panicking. There is no backup plan.
 And I'm not exaggerating when I say in our part of the city and not just Selwood, I'm talking Brooklyn, I'm talking Woodstock, I'm talking even going into Milwaukee and leaving Clackamas, going to Clackamas County, the average is for the amount of time he spends in school would be 900 more dollars a month. What should we do? Mr. Fish, do you have anything you can offer me? I don't know if you have children.
 So I have two kids. Okay. And what we'd be happy to do is talk to you about a range of options. We're in the process of doing a scan of other options in the community. Well, I've spoken to Ms. Lilly, is it? Who sent down an email to preschool parents a couple of months ago to ask where we would prefer to be relocated. And the problem with that equation is that we would be traveling distances that would make the 2-hour and 45-minute window...
 so tight that it would almost be pointless to go home while our kids are at preschool.
 So can you name any specifics? Are you going to create a busing system from Selwood so that there's an efficient way for parents to get their kids to other centers? I can't as I sit here, but what you're confirming with me is we need to do a better job of communicating with parents about what the options are. Right. So I'll follow up with that, and I hope you haven't had trouble with my office. It's been brutal, sir, actually. It's been brutal with everyone's office.
 I let us sit in in your office and you might remember I approached you, I gave you a book that I had written to read a story about how children asked their parents to advocate for them and their parents stood up and did it and the city listened. I've got it. I hope you read to the end. It was actually very impressive. I hope that you read to the end because it says that not only was the Selwood Community Center saved but parks and rec were expanded into communities that deserve to have their own center. Thank you.
 We are desperate. Thank you. Ms. Our next three are Fred Granum, Hans Bernard, and Jack Denton. That's Fred Granum, Hans Bernard, Jack Denton, Sally Jochen, Mary Pivito, maybe, and Peter Ziegler, and Alia Corbin. If any of you are here in the room, go ahead and take a seat. I think others. Okay. Mr. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Fred Granum, the Executive Director of the James Beard Public Market. As you're well aware, we are a nonprofit 501c3 organization that's working on a public-private model to bring a regional destination here to Portland, a public market which is all about food that will generate approximately 250 jobs that will be manned by 50 to 60 different independent businesses exclusively selling food.
 In the course of this public market, we will be providing an array of public benefits of job training, economic development, cooking skills, nutrition training, and wellness programs within the part of the venue.
 After years of searching for the right location, we are on the cusp of reaching an arrangement with OMSI to be a part of their massive development, anticipating breaking ground in the next 24 to 36 months. This leads us to the stage of our development in which we need to incur approximately $1.2 million in pre-development funds to obtain studies and reports to confirm the feasibility and the preparations for the construction of the market.
 As a public-private partnership, we look to the private sector and to the public sector to help make this happen. To date, we have over $480,000 of private funding from private individuals, private foundations, and corporations which are supporting our project. We are looking to the state where there is a funding request there for the Ways and Means Committee pending for $400,000, which will be up for consideration next month.
 We appreciate the mayor including $100,000 in the city budget for our work, and this is an appreciation and a reflection, and something that's just pivotal as we talk to their folks in Salem, they look to the city to make sure the city is pulling its share, and with the $100,000, we're able to work with them, and they recognize the efforts that the city is doing. So with that, we appreciate this effort and hope that this is retained in the final approved budget. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Sally Jockin. Six years ago I worked with the grassroots group, the People's Budget Project, protesting cuts to Portland parks and rec and many other services that make this a livable and great city. It's sad to be protesting about the same things again.
 I attended a town hall in mid-April sponsored by Commissioner Hardesty in which we attendees got to make suggestions about what we were for and against in many areas of city services. The overwhelming number of sticky notes were put on what I don't want to fund regarding police and what I do want to fund regarding parks.
 I have a family member who works for parks in the maintenance department, and I'm quite aware that they are never caught up with the work that is needed to keep everything in good condition. Portland has wonderful parks and community centers, and they are very important to many people who use them. They need to be properly maintained, and in addition, I would like to see the fee system reorganized so that classes and activities are affordable for all who want and need them in our city.
 Where will we get the money for these things? That's where the police come in. I agree with Commissioner Hardesty that since there are currently many police officer vacancies, the funding that was not used, this savings, could be transferred to parks on a one-time basis. Funding would still be available later for the Police Bureau if and when jobs are filled in the future.
 In the meantime, let's not make families, children, and seniors constantly worry that their community centers and pools might suddenly close, and let's not create uncertainty and anxiety for the staff at these places. A long-term solution needs to be found so that threats of closures and failure to provide proper maintenance does not keep recurring.
 City Council should keep things going during the coming fiscal year Using the police savings while pledging at the same time to figure out the long-term solution to funding Parks and rec. Thank you. Hello mayor and commissioners. My name is Hans Bernard. I'm a recreation leader I'm speaking on behalf of Jessica Ramirez a recreation leader at the Southwest Community Center Mrs. Her picture you can see
 So I'm just going to read off her testimony. Seeing kids come in as infants and seeing them grow as seven and eight-year-olds is powerful. Jessica gets the pleasure of seeing the families gain trust and friendship over the years. People have grown close to her, in part because of her Spanish-speaking skills. She acts as a resource to Spanish families every day, helping them navigate parks and recreation resources. Patrons often.
 They come back just to talk to Jessica as she is the only fluent Spanish speaking staff. Some may be able to help, but not in the same way as Jessica without an interpreter. She helps make connections with other resources in the community. Losing Jessica as a Spanish speaking
 individual at our community center is a really big fear. Who will fill her shoes and could be someone that they could relate to. I provide a full-time consistent dedicated public service
 or at least Jessica does as well. These cuts would lead to part-time variable hours, and that is a huge hit to a committed workforce. This isn't work that can go somewhere else. Other employees are already working at a capacity, and these staff cuts will mean impacts to kids and families. Reductions in programming are exacerbated by transportation limitations.
 And there is only one bus line that runs every hour at the Southwest Community Center. Anything after 5 p.m. you can't get to or go home from. Programs that get cut for morning or midday will mean people who need to use the bus won't have program to go to at all if it's available after 5. If her position gets cut, it will mean also losing a lot of the scholarship program.
 as it'll be impacted because she worked so hard. Thank you. Thank you. Was there a Jack Derrington? Okay, then we're gonna go with Miles DeBastien or Mary Pavito, Monica Nettle, Jonathan Cobb, Jillian Johnson. Is that, are you Jonathan up there? Okay, Jonathan's coming down. Okay, I'm just calling some names so people can get ready. If you hear your name, come on over. Jillian Johnson was last name, Megan Stout,
 Royal Harris Can I provide I would like to voice for myself can I provide you with a paper in case you aren't able to understand me and I would request that I have an extra minute because it takes longer to use American Sign Language Than it does in the interpretation process. I
 And I do want to point out that CART actually wasn't accessible. I wasn't able to use it. So I would highly suggest that we improve the CART services, especially particularly for low vision people that can't access the CART captions at the top and need to use it on a device. The device I used it on was not accessible. So I would just like to maybe contact your accessibility team in order to talk with someone about how to improve the captions for future. Could I just comment on that?
 Yeah. The Mayor's budget does propose another person in the disability equity team. So we will hopefully have staff who will be able to respond to requests like that. Thank you. Perfect. Thank you. Dear elected official, my name is Miles DeBastien. I'm a Thelwood resident and the founder of the Northwest Deaf Arts Festival and a nonprofit called Simon's Pit.
 We facilitate arts and cultural events that are inclusive for the deaf and hard of hearing and the disabled community. These endeavors are creating equitable opportunities that are much needed for people with disabilities. As a deaf person, I've struggled with phone calls to the commissioner's offices
 The staff answering the phone are not well trained in the deaf relay system that we have to use. They're just slow to type in or sign. So I keep getting hung up on when I'm trying to contact the offices. So that's the reason why I'm here today to talk to you in person, because I felt like I could not get through to you with other means.
 Your budget cut to the Portland Parks and Recreation will eliminate the Selwood Community Center. The community center is the only affordable option for preschool and summer camp for my two children. Without daycare for my children, I will not be able to commit my time and resources to the nonprofit that I serve, and this will jeopardize projects that are benefiting people with disabilities. Portland considers itself a progressive city,
 I see many efforts to improve equity and inclusion that focus on racial and gender diversity. Unfortunately, people with disabilities are often left out of this conversation. There's a great need to support disability issues. Please don't make it harder for us. I believe my work makes a significant impact and I need your support to keep going. If you want to see Portland be a diverse and equitable city for people with disabilities and other minorities,
 Please fully fund Portland Parks and Recreation for another year. I ask Commissioners Fish, Fritz, and Uly to support Commissioner's hard to see amendment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Royal Harris. I am here as a resident of Portland, Oregon, reflecting and commenting on myself personally.
 I want to speak to the desire to get rid of the gun violence reduction team and my belief that that would be not in the best interest of Portland as a whole and the African American community and specifically African American at men for risk of violence. I speak as the first person I've seen here today who is intimately involved with Portland's gang culture. Being someone who has been involved since its inception from the creation with myself and my friends.
 to being a victim of gun violence, to being someone who has had several members, including a brother who was killed due to gun violence, and understanding the nature of Portland's gun violence reduction team initially that was the gang enforcement team. While I can honestly say it has never been a panacea for Portland's issues between the black community and Portland police, what I do say is in 30 years, it has evolved into the best situation we have.
 for Portland police to engage young black men of color who might be involved in violent activity. To dispel some of the things I heard today, first of all, one of the things I heard is that all black men or most black men have a fear of engaging Portland police and walking away. I can say from doing it for the majority of my life under the right circumstances, that is a fallacy that both a lot of myself and a lot of my friends share is not true. While I can also talk to the fact that not every Portland police officer
 is kind or courteous or content. I do say what we have within that unit is the best attempt we've had at community policing so far and I do say
 that we need to reinvest in those efforts with the oversight needed to do 21st century policing for our community. And I do say this as a representative of those men who have been killed and shot and those families who represented the trauma that goes along with this. Community policing by those skilled in understanding our communities and well-versed in what happens is a lot better than dispersing the unit. Thank you, sir. Mayor. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you.
 Thank you. I appreciate your statement when you were invited by the mayor to come and tell us why the gun...
 reduction team was important. I appreciate you coming back today. Just like I don't speak for all the African Americans in the community, I don't expect you to speak for all the African Americans in this community either. And I choose not to. I speak for those from the community who have been impacted and engaged in what we call gang violence. You speak from one perspective and I speak from another. And though I respect your opinion, I wanna be clear.
 Neither the gang enforcement unit or the gun reduction unit is community policing. Community policing is about knowing the community and being able to use your words to help solve community problems. And I can say respectfully from being someone engaged by Portland Police Gang Enforcement Unit, Gang Gun Violence Reduction Team in Portland Police Entertainment District Officers and regular officers.
 I can distinguish and delineate those who have embraced community policing versus those who have embraced policing communities. And I will say with some certainty since I am a content expert that in there since I have been speaking since the last week when I came to City Council with over 20 individuals intimately involved through law enforcement, through community, and through gang activity that what I say resonates in the sense that what we do have is the best effort at community policing that a lot of people have engaged.
 Thank you very much. And they also say that it needs to be improved. All I want to say is that that is not community policing. You can have your opinion. I just want you to know that is not community policing. And I've also talked to former and current gang members.
 And I don't know anyone other than the people that were invited here that think gun enforcement or gang enforcement is community policing. I would say the ones who came last week that you walked out on would say that's true. Hey, I didn't walk out on anybody. A, it was not scheduled on my calendar. I made time to come and meet because the mayor invited me. So don't try to pretend like somehow...
 It was something that I was already scheduled to do. It was an organized effort to sell us on this gun reduction team, and it didn't work. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for taking the time to come. I appreciate you speaking your truth, and I know my colleague speaks hers. It's important for us to hear both perspectives. Thank you, Royla, and I appreciate it as well. Thank you. Thank you. Jonathan Cobb, Jillian Johnson, KK.
 Sam Diaz, Gail Hoffnagel, D'Wana Harris. As soon as I call your name, go ahead and come up and then I'll call the names again.
 Hello, my name is Jonathan Cobb. I am a case manager for transition projects and proud member of a vast me local 88 My colleagues including Jillian Johnson had to leave unfortunately our unions and negotiations this year, but of course we receive public funding and Are dependent on that in order for? for better conditions everyday TPI staff do vital work with vulnerable populations that much of our society rather ignored and forget about and
 People who would rather dismiss homelessness as a personal failing, the result of a lack of moral character, rather than something that could happen to them. They don't want to consider that they themselves could be one mispayment, one medical emergency, one family crisis away from becoming homeless themselves. At TPI, we see the reality of homelessness up close. We see the toll on people's mental health, their physical and spiritual well-being, from not only being deprived of money and resources, but robbed of the very dignity.
 We also see the hope that we bring to people. We're able to recover that sense of dignity. We provide not just a roof over their head, but a welcoming space where they can feel safe and included, where their essential dignity is recognized. TPI workers are out there saving lives every day, first and foremost by helping people out of the dangers they experience on the streets, but also by giving CPR and first aid, administering Narcan for drug overdoses, and de-escalating people experiencing mental health crises. I myself once saved a man from choking,
 For all the work we do for homelessness, it's a sad irony that as many as one in five TPI employees have themselves experienced homelessness while working with this agency. Just as society undervalues the lives of homeless people themselves, so too do they undervalue the work of those who serve the homeless. We are proud of the work we do and the lives we save, but it's unsustainable for many of us. Low pay and burnouts lead to higher turnover rates that leave us frequently understaffed and overworked.
 which in turn leads to more people leaving the agency. That's why 83% of TPA employees have worked here for less than three years. So I just want to say thank you, and please, I urge you to fund Portland Homeless Projects better. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. I just want to thank you for sticking around and thank my colleagues. Thank you for wearing your Oregon AFSCME T-shirt today. Thank you.
 Hi there, I'm Gail Hoffnagle. I'm the chairman of the Friends of Selwood Community Center. I feel like we're beginning to know each other because I've come here, you know year after year. Today I'm going to be really short.
 So a community center has been slated to be closed and unlike the closure of other community centers in the past like for instance Hillside and Fulton who had a year to transition we've been given three months and Trying to have the neighborhood association Do a good job of making that transition? possible is
 becoming really difficult. With the 30 years of deferred maintenance in the building, we've hit several roadblocks already that's going to make it challenging for us. And what we'd like is additional time so that we can make a smoother transition.
 That's it. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Hyung Nam. I'm a public school teacher. Before teaching in public schools, I worked as a social worker with runaway and homeless kids. I know that both my students now and the young adults I worked with in the past, parks and recreation is really crucial. I really appreciate Commissioner Hardesty's...
 framing of this that our budget is a moral statement and I want us to think about what are we saying if a
 The majority of our budget, we call it public safety, but actually goes to policing. And we're talking about cutting vital services that serve families at every age that are core parts of our community. And instead, we want to fund not only the gang enforcement task force, that's really the same people that are running the thing,
 But also things like body cams and other kind of things when we know that from recent surveys over 70% of the public do not trust us do not trust the police So what are we saying about our city that we want to fund these things to? basically
 I'm a teacher because I believe in the future, and I don't want a future where we keep on policing people and not offering the kind of services that's gonna allow people and families to thrive, and instead we keep on reproducing the system where we incarcerate more people than any other country in the entire world. So I want us to think about what can we invest in the future? Thank you. Was there Sam Diaz? Go with Dawana Harris.
 Jones Kelly or James Kelly Siobhan McKinstry Tim led with Lee Williams Alice Shapiro Okay, next is Carol moist Charles Iragu and then Tom Karwaki. All right. Hello mayor and commissioners My name is Dewana Harris and I work for transitional projects where their mission is to trans help people as they transition from homelessness to housing
 I'm in a unique role as someone who has worked in a number of their programs that you fund, and I now oversee and direct my agency's equity and inclusion and peer mentor efforts and have firsthand experience of how your investments and support impact the lives of people experiencing homelessness. I see this in action every day. I live and breathe this work. Your investment allowed a participant to go from homelessness to shelter,
 to surviving and addressing their mental health needs, to achieving and maintaining housing stability. And now for over three years, I'm pleased to say that they are currently employed as a property manager. That's right. Your effort led someone from homelessness to property management. Thank you for your ongoing investment and support of housing initiatives and in the homelessness work.
 Excellent testimony. Thank you for sharing that story. That's uplifting and well received. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. How you doing? My name is Lee Williams. I am a citizen of Portland and a guy. Mayor Wheeler, I'd like to quote back to you the focus that you were putting into the budget, as you said in the last budget hearing that we all went to. You said you were looking to preserve the core values that made Portland a great city.
 You said you wanted to ensure that the prosperity and services we currently enjoy are preserved for future generations. And you also said you wanted to focus on the things that make a real difference in the lives of Portlanders. And as soon as you said that, I thought he's going to do it. He's going to add more community centers. But that's not the way it went down. That's not the way it's going down at all. It's clear that things are going to get closed and that you guys don't have an option for really...
 preserving what we've got. I would suggest, I didn't, I apologize, I'm new to the whole local government process, but the thing that was mentioned when we began the state revenue sharing, the 22 million, why can't somebody propose an amendment to shave a little bit of that off and help us out? That would probably fix it, at least for the short term. I wanted to give you some numbers. Selwood Community Center, which is who I'm advocating for, the preschool currently serves 56 children.
 The after-school program serves 85 kids, and all those kids are on waiting lists at the elementary schools, at least 50 or 60 deep. The judo classes, a mixture of kids and adults, mostly kids, has 50 each week. Other classes are about 100 people each week. And the summer camps are 160 kids per week, every week for the entire summer. This is not a low effort program.
 community sorry um
 I would say one last thing I would throw in. We were shown this beautiful graphic at that budget hearing where 88% is immutable of the budget and 12% is kind of loosey-goosey. Why can't these foundational community centers be put in that 88%? You could probably do that if you put your minds to it. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fruits. If I could just address your question about the state revenue sharing. That money is already included when we're looking at who's getting what. So it's...
 Some of it's dedicated to... Well, then why was there opportunity to make testimony about it? Because it's a requirement. It's a formality that we... This is often when we do all of the kind of dotting the I's and crossing the T's. I see. Well, I would say moving forward then in future years...
 Maybe that should be taken a look at earlier in the budget process. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. Hi. Alice Shapiro. Much of what I agree with has already been said in terms of the jobs that will be lost and in terms of service to daycare. I was really moved by the young woman who spoke with her two children. Even in supposedly affluent communities.
 People cannot afford private daycare. They depend on this and in other communities that are less fortunate than the Selwood community that I inhabit are even going to be in more dire straits. That's not exactly why I'm here. I'm here for all of those reasons, but I'm also here to talk about social infrastructure, which I could quote another social worker that social infrastructure is the glue that holds communities together and it is just as real as the infrastructure for water, power, communications,
 although it's harder to see and also as important as policing. I have seen many of the benefits firsthand, but it's not about me or about you. It's about the vitality of our city and the ideals for which we purportedly stand.
 Portland calls itself the city that works. I wonder for whom it's now working. Without funding to continue our social interactions, we will become more isolated, and we will not be able to get to know our neighbors and come together when crises occur. When I go to a community center, and I mostly go to Selwood and Mount Scott, I see especially at Mount Scott, which is larger than Selwood, but other places as well, this is truly a place where people of all ages mingle.
 It's not just about the activities we attend, but it's where people get to know each other, get to trust each other, get to see each other, get to say hello to each other. Without our community centers and our parks, this will be gone. We'll become, as my husband said,
 and I don't want to, I was born in Chicago, but we come like Chicago, where we know they don't have the infrastructure and the community that we purportedly have. I want to live in Portland. I don't want to live anywhere else. I want the bridge funding. I want a way to make our communities stable. So there's more I can say, but I did turn in written testimony. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next are Tom Karwacki, Jordan Alashim, and Seemab Hussaini. Oh yeah, Charles, go ahead, I'm sorry. And colleagues, just for the record, item 480 has been rescheduled to next Wednesday, May 29th at 2 p.m. time certain. When we read that later, I'll make note of that. But if you're here for item 480, you don't need to be. Good afternoon. I just wasted four hours. Sorry.
 Who's on go ahead. Okay. Thank you. Hi. My name is charles iragi I am a resident of sailwood and i'm also coming here to talk about the planned closure of community centers But I thought I would maybe try and change the focus of the conversation from continuing budget efforts to continuing vital services It seems as though from years every year these community centers are threatened with closure And that their services there them and their services are no longer viewed as a central function of the parks
 So, it is understandable in that sense that the city has arrived at a decision to cease funding these activities. However, no one believes that halting the services provided to the community centers would not entail significant social costs. And we definitely heard that lady with her kids. I think that's very significant. In view of these two considerations, I would like to suggest that the city make use of a basic tool of change management.
 in either business or government, and that is to allocate funds for the transition costs from the old policy to a reformed policy. In this case, funds to draw private actors into making a viable decision to take over the maintenance of these critical services.
 There's no alternative currently to these services as this woman was just speaking about. The hardship the concerned communities will face may well be severe, especially in the case of childcare. Childcare services are already in short supply and the closure will create a crisis in these
 not addressing this transition problem in the short three months we have in front of us would be irresponsible. And I propose the city go forward with the closure as anticipated or perhaps delayed until the year end, but also allocate funds for a responsible transition. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Jordan Elson.
 Thank you commissioners for hearing from us and I'm here to urge this commission to adopt Commissioner Harasty's amendment to defund the gun violence reduction task force. Thank you for introducing that amendment and thank you for mentioning seconding it. Thank you.
 I don't want to spend my time explaining why I believe this force is a symbol of racism. I think if someone does not understand how a body that turns 6% of our population into almost 60% of their stops is a symbol of racism, I honestly don't know what to say to you. I instead want to say this.
 I, like many Portlanders, voted for Commissioner Hardesty for multiple reasons, but one of those reasons is because it's important to me to move Portland towards anti-racism, not just non-racism. I have watched many candidates in my lifetime campaign on police reform and utterly fail to do anything of any significance, and at this point I have understood that sometimes the best person for the job is a woman of color, frankly.
 Most Portlanders, I believe, feel this way. And it's not just anti-fascists or anarchists, it's people like me who donate and volunteer and take time off of work to show up to support their candidates when they uphold their campaign promises. Defunding a symbol of racism is literally the bare minimum of what we need to be doing in order to move forward. It's also our moral responsibility and I believe your civic responsibility.
 I have a list I want to name. Kenice Derrick Hayes, Andre Gladen, Jeb Collin Brock, Samuel Rice, Patrick Kimmons, John Ellefritz, Karel Kareem Johnson. Some of them were armed, all of them were shot and killed by Portland police in the last two years. I have one more name, Angel Granados Diaz, a student with a shotgun who was safely disarmed by a school staffer.
 The only gun violence problem Portland has is a police gun violence problem. Thank you. Tom Karwacki Good afternoon. Tom Karwacki Good afternoon. My name is Tom Karwacki and I'm speaking on behalf of the Portland Bureau of Transportation, Bureau and Budget Advisory Committee. Farrell Richards I think might still be in the room and Momika Saunders, our chair, was here but had to leave.
 We want to thank you number one mayor for including adaptive bike town and the resiliency plan in the budget notes and the derelict RV program which are also very important aspects as well as other capital projects. Vision zero is kind of an important thing. Now at our bureau committee meetings we start with the reading of the names of everyone who has died that month
 on the streets of Portland and it's very difficult. Vision Zero starts with three E's, engineering, education and enforcement.
 And it really, we'd ask you, Mayor, to try to spend more resources on the enforcement side with the Police Bureau, especially, that's really an important one. 25% of the Traffic Enforcement Division should not be sent to other parts of the Police Department. We have to enforce our traffic laws. Or we may have to look at other innovative ideas of enforcement.
 like what you're looking at with respect to the transit police. But I think that something we really want to do is look at, it's a combined effort, all three parts of the, you know, the bureaus can't be, they have to march together. And it's not just on this, it's on the RV enforcement, a lot of other areas. More coordination between bureaus would really be helpful. That's it. No argument there. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you.
 Thank you so much for your testimony. So you're from the Bureau of Transportation, is that correct? That's correct. On the advisory committee, yes. You're on advisory. I got it. On the community. I'm not a staff person, sorry. I got it now. And so you talked about the need for more enforcement. Yes.
 And you are aware that the areas with the highest crash areas are areas where the Department of Transportation has failed to actually do infrastructure improvements that create safe communities. Every area is in East Portland where there are high crash areas, and so I'm concerned
 that our knee-jerk reaction is more enforcement? Absolutely, absolutely understood. And I think we had agreed with that. And we also agreed with the police who looked at the police where the traffic cameras were going to be placed originally as well. But I think the whole issue of, we've also supported the equity prospects of the Bureau of Transportation, which would have significantly increased the number of resources for engineering and so forth. So I don't know what equity means when it comes to...
 how the Department of Transportation spends their money. I mean, because the roads all look the same color, but they lack. We lack roads in East Portland. We lack lights. So I'm just trying to figure out what...
 Well, equity is one of our first criteria and as a committee that we look at. And I know that the Bureau is really, that's one of their main criteria as well. So I think the Bureau has been trying to do what it can. I don't think all of those issues can be addressed right now. We were just looking at the budget that was presented here. So what does equity mean to you in this process? Yes.
 Well, looking through the equity lens deals with all of the different investments of the Bureau. And so we're just an advisory committee, but with respect to that, we've spent almost half of our time dealing with equity issues of looking at where the investments have been made and are being made in the future and where are the needs.
 enforcement was just because of some situations that have occurred and that it requires both bureaus to look at. That was a separate issue. But I understand. I mean, I think what you're asking is how do we really bake into all of the decisions of a bureau?
 equity and I think that's a discussion that I'd like to extend at another time. That actually wasn't my question at all. My question was what did equity mean to you and you talked totally around my question and so I just appreciate the fact that you just don't know the answer to the question that I've asked. Well I can speak
 to myself, but you're asking me almost in my role here as a committee. Nope, nope. I'd actually like to intervene because I don't think it's fair to put a volunteer member of our budget committee on the spot like that. Well, all due respect, I mean, he's the one that's been pushing the equity question. So if he doesn't have a definition of equity when he's saying that everything is through an equity lens...
 I do have an opportunity. I should be able to challenge that. And I absolutely agree. And I'm going to say that on the equity lens, that's what the Bureau has developed a rather robust format for looking at things. So I'm going to just let it go at that. So in this case, as a community member who's serving on the budget committee, it's important.
 kind of an awkward position to be put in to speak on behalf of the Bureau. That's the only reason I was trying to intervene. And I just want to correct a few things that were said. We have high crash networks all over the city. Many of them are in East Portland, but they're also in the central city and including on the west side. Some of them are owned by ODOT. And we're
 as I think I've explained before, with Vision Zero and Fixing Our Streets, we use an equation heavily weighted toward equitable outcomes. And that means when we look at these high crash networks, we're prioritizing the ones that are within low-income communities and communities of color. And I know you have...
 concerns about enforcement. I want to take this opportunity to say number one, because of the nature of these streets, a lot of people involved in these crashes are moving through those communities. And I've asked if there's any way that we can start collecting data when we have a crash on where people are coming from and where they're going because my
 instinct and I can't support it with data now. I would just want to be honest about that but my Instinct because this is also true with our highways Is that it's people moving through these neighborhoods? Endangering those communities endangering those pedestrians I am an anti authoritarian and
 I am someone who wants to really keep government out of our private business. I don't believe in victimless crimes. I think we should be free to make a lot of personal choices that we are not. However, when it comes to...
 taking other people's lives into your own hands, driving recklessly, that is somewhere where I am willing to support as much intervention as it takes because we can't engineer our way. We can't solely engineer our way out of this. We certainly have a lot of work to do and so does ODOT. We can't educate our way out of this.
 People know that there's very limited enforcement, and they are acting outrageously on our streets. I, on an almost daily basis, see people running red lights from a full stop.
 shooting the gap with pedestrians and endangering them. We just had a crash on Greeley, unfortunately, where a vehicle crossed the center line, hit an SUV, and the driver and passenger were killed just today. So it's an issue that I'm painfully aware of and really seeking solutions on. Want to make sure that we eliminate as much bias in the system as we possibly can, but
 You know, people in East Portland, I think, are four times more likely to die in traffic crashes than people elsewhere in the city. So it's a tough one. And I want to thank you for coming and just...
 Thank you. I mean, I understand where you're asking. You're legit, but I can give you my answers, but they're not necessarily the committee, nor am I a representative of the Bureau. And don't, just know that I asked everybody what their own personal definition and very few people actually have one. So thank you. Oh, I have one.
 Commissioner Fritz, your amendment did pass. Is that what I understood earlier? What's which one? The BDS historical resolution. It passed this morning because we had the change in the rates. It has not yet been voted on as part of the budget. So we're literally halfway there. That was a different hat. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you. Next is Seemab Hussaini, Paige Lehman, and Kelsey Owals, I believe is the last name. Anna Swanson.
 Jack Herbert and the last person I showed who signed up is Chris Lowe. So if you signed up and didn't hear your name, let me know. Great. And other than that, the list is closed. Come on up, John. If I called your name, sit down. Come on up. Come on up. Would you like to go first, please? Okay. My name is Jack Herbert. So three things I want to say quickly. I've been to a lot of public demonstrations and often they're way over policed. You got a lot of money you could save in the police bureau. Okay.
 I mean, most of those things, most people are committed to nonviolence in those. And when the police throw explosives at people, you know, that's not public safety, that's public danger. So, I think you have a lot of changes to make in both amount of policing on those things and how you police. Another thing is there's an awful lot of building going on in Portland.
 I heard that it had more construction than any other city in the country and you're giving away all these tax breaks That you don't need to be given away as incentives There's a lot of money you could be taxing and the other thing is that right now as you said Portland's pretty prosperous because these are good times in terms of incomes and they're gonna be better times You know, they're probably as good as they're gonna get
 and a lot of people making a lot of money and they aren't paying their fair share for the city that produces all that wealth for them. And the more people thrive in this city, the more money they make. So you need to tax them. And if this is a year where you think you can't go change the funding, how are you going to tax to produce the funds for this budget? You know, you need to do something. So that's my point. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi. But next year, you need to get those access, and I think you need to do some taxing now for this budget.
 Good afternoon. Hi. Hi, my name is Anna Swanson. I'm here representing Care Not Cops and Critical Resistance Portland. And I'm here to call for the elimination, as Joanne has suggested with her amendment, of the gun violence reduction team. And not only that. For you all to really rethink how we enforce laws in the city and specifically to think
 what gang policing is and whether just the reduction or like through the elimination of that team would actually create safer communities in that I I have no trust that that won't get shifted to another part of the Police Bureau so making a commitment to not engage in gang policing at all is something that I would ask for as a part of that and I appreciate that
 Mr. Wheeler, you are naming that you would want to have public conversations about these things and make more space for this. I think that is incredibly necessary. And I would also add to that we are advocating for the opposition to that $10 million increase to the Portland Police Bureau that you have asked for. You ask for more money for the police every year.
 They already have over $200 million. And as you've seen today, people are asking, begging for resources like parks to be kept.
 People need resources that are life-affirming, that support their needs, like recreation, like health care, like education. They don't need to be policed. And I also want to thank you, Joanne, for articulating around this idea of mere conversations, that what we need to be looking at is not just sort of the costs and benefits budget-wise of policing, but the actual lived impacts on our community members, especially black and brown folks who walk away from those mere conversations.
 impacted mental health wise, afraid, like it has a huge impact and you need to actually pay attention to that and make decisions based on that. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Hello, my name's Chris Lowe. I live in Woodstock neighborhood, but when my daughter was young, she spent a lot of time at the Selwood Community Center. And I could tell you stories about that, but I'm not. I wanna move to a different level here. Commissioner Fish in talking about the parks bureau budget has spoken repeatedly about a structural deficit and it's time to stop kicking that down the road.
 I believe that is a mistaken analysis. The structural deficit is in the entire city budget. And you have been kicking that down the road by continuing to compartmentalize in the areas of responsibility of the different commissioners. And that siloing does not have to wait until changing the system of government. You can stop siloing it now and you need to do that.
 one city, one budget, look at the needs of all the communities. When I look at the closure of the Selwood Community Center, I think I see developers who want to gentrify Selwood and Westmoreland into Eastmoreland kind of prices, right? And I think you, with the TIF financing, have actually a conflict of interest in how you even think about these things that creates a preferential option for the rich to...
 change a term from the Catholic social teachings. I also think you need to look at these things together. When the woman who did the sit-in was talking about childcare, that's in the context of our rental crisis. It's in the context of an overall cost of living that is driving people literally out of the city. Some people, not others. And until you look at this, and until you decide
 to tax the rich this is a class war budget and it's a war against the poor and the lower middle class and the people who are precarious in the younger generations and i i think you need to just kind of face up to that and reframe your whole thinking the era of austerity in a you know the best employment economy in 50 years we're told we're looking at a cuts budget
 What that something is wrong with that picture there should not be a cuts budget in that circumstance. Thank you It went one second and stopped it was two minutes great, thank you appreciate it I
 Thank you, Mayor. Is that it? I'm sorry, that's all who signed up. Okay, good. Commissioner Hardesty, you had a question? Yes, Mayor, thank you. I handed out an article that I just saw in the Portland and the Oregonian about your plan to put $1.6 million into school resource officers.
 and I'm a bit surprised that we're not having a conversation about that as it pertains to the budget. Is this, do you have an amendment that would do this or is this just something that's gonna happen out of the public eye? That is part of the base budget for the Portland Police Bureau. It's not a change to the budget. It is not a change to the budget. We already are giving $1.6 million for school resource officers. This says we're expanding it.
 The article that I'm reading says we're expanding this and there have been conversations with school districts but not with the city council in regard to expanding school resource officers.
 So all that I know is there are no new resources that have been approved that I'm aware of for the school resource officer program. What I believe, what has been included is what was included in the current year budget. But we can follow up with the police bureau and continue the conversation. Can we ask Chief Outlaw to come up? Because at the last time we talked about school resource officers, I was told that we weren't funding them. So, and the school districts weren't funding them. So I'd love to know how that happened.
 Thank goodness your gun and was publishing today. Hi, Chief. Hi there. The question is in regard to school resource officers. The last conversation we had about school resource officers were that the school districts weren't funding them and we weren't funding. We were just backing off from this.
 But now I see 1.6 million for school resource officers. Well, this is a new conversation for us as well. Oh, really? You didn't know either? Well, as far as we know, there's nothing new. There's nothing added to what we've already done. So unless Bob has something new. I have not read the article. Oh, here. I'll give you a copy. But the...
 There has been no change in the budget or staffing level, at least the number of allocated positions for this program. I think we're just surprised because there had been a previous conversation about the district taking on the cost of the SROs, which...
 created a larger conversation in the community around whether the school community's staff, family, students wanted SROs. The school board voted for it and then voted against it. There was lots of student input.
 We heard nothing, and now we discover that it's back in the budget. So it's a surprise to me as well. As well as being told that there's going to be 12 school resource officers, and I thought we had a limit in patrol officers, but we have 12 officers who could spend their days in schools. I think I share Commissioner Udalli's shock that this was not something that we had been informed was being done.
 actually included in the budget. We'll follow back with you on that. Like I said, actually, I haven't shared that with you. The last meetings that we had with the school districts was that there was support for police officers in school, but the question was around who would pay for it.
 And we recognize that we had some time there. There wasn't a need to make a hasty decision given that the schools are still in session. So we hadn't had any discussion since then. And like I said, we are not aware of anything as far as expansion or anything being added.
 I hope we get that information before we're voting on the budget because that's going to be a key question that we need answered before we vote tomorrow afternoon. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. This is just a matter of where are the offices stationed?
 And this is a program that's been going for quite some time. We made an attempt to ask school districts to pay to have the offices located in the schools. And we also heard in this data to show that having them there actually is a good thing and is appropriate.
 a more effective way. So, and I appreciate this, this is a bigger policy discussion. I'm not sure we want to have it right now. I'm just not surprised. I'm gonna say why I'm not surprised. I'm not surprised because there's no change to the budget. This is an allocation of resources that is the same as the allocation as last year. It was in the CalTarget.
 There has not been a decision by the city council to eliminate that program that I'm aware of. And I'll second what the chief said. We have met with the superintendents and the leadership and in some cases board chairs of the school districts in question and they told us to a person unequivocally they want the program. And so the question now is how do we fund it
 unless we decide we want to go in a different direction, which as a council we can do, but the question is how do we fund it on an ongoing basis and how do you ensure equity amongst the districts?
 Well, with all due respect, we heard loud and clearly from the students at these schools that they do not want an expansion of police services in their school. So I guess if you talk to the school board and you talk to teachers without talking to the people who will be most impacted by having law enforcement walking through the school, you could conclude that
 that people want it. But the people that will be impacted, the ones who will be stopped, questioned, searched, I think also need to weigh in on this question. And I just find it disappointing that I have to read it in the Oregonian, because I actually thought that while we were having these conversations, we were gonna continue to have the policy conversation. But you're right, this is not the day for it. But if we're voting on this budget, I sure would like to know the answer to how the school districts knew
 and we did as the city council. Thank you. All right, very good. Thank you, Chief. I appreciate it. So Jessica, it's my understanding then that we're going to continue
 the hearing and I have the language to do that unless there's any further discussion. Nope, that is correct Mayor. So tomorrow we will hear if there are any additional individual amendments. We will vote on those additional, the individual amendments that have been put forward and then we'll vote to approve of the budget and we will also approve the tax levies tomorrow. All right, good. Very good. So this meeting of the Budget Committee is continued to Thursday, May 23rd at 3 30 p.m. in Council Chambers City Hall.
 This concludes the hearing on the City of Portland's budget. I just got a late break in question. I understand Prosper Portland is here, so if we continue this part, we can still do the Prosper Portland budget, is that correct? Correct. Because I understand only two people have signed up. Yes. Okay, so we are then adjourned as the City Budget Committee. And I will quickly move to my notes here. Yeah, we're not done yet, sorry.
 So we're gonna move that. We're gonna move that. That is now continued. Carla, you're still with us. Could you please read time certain item 478? Yeah, we're getting the Prosper Portland clerk right now. I gotta find my notes. Approve the annual budget of Prosper Portland for fiscal year 2019-20.
 All right, I'm now convening the Prosper Portland Budget Committee for the purpose of approving the fiscal year 2019-2020 budget. The budget committee members received Prosper Portland's budget message on Thursday, May 9th. The budget committee also took public testimony on the Prosper Portland budget on the evening of May 9th. Copies of Prosper Portland's approved budget change memo were provided to the budget committee on Tuesday, May 14th.
 I now request that Pam call the roll. Commissioner Fritz? Here. Fish?
 Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Mayor Wheeler? Here. I'm now calling for a motion to consider the changes to the proposed budget which were presented in change memo and exhibit A. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Now Prosper Portland staff, Kimberly Branham will come up and describe some of the changes and answer any questions regarding the change memo. Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Commissioners, Kimberly Branham with Prosper Portland. I'm Executive Director. I'm joined by Tony Barnes, who's our Finance Manager, and he's going to walk through the proposed budget amendments, and then we're happy to take any questions that you have. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners, Tony Barnes, Finance Manager, Prosper Portland. The budget change memo for Prosper Portland includes several items which
 align Prosper Portland's budget with the City of Portland's proposed budget and changes that were considered at the work session last week. Those changes include adjustments to Economic Development General Fund and Housing Community Development Funds related to the Portland Film Office, as well as adjustments in the General Fund to match the City of Portland proposed budget. Also includes a reduction in Housing Community Development funding related to
 total amount of community development block grant dollars for the Portland Housing Bureau. And then also housing appropriations, there's a decrease in appropriations to match the Portland Housing Bureau's recommended approved budget for next fiscal year in the tax increment districts. And finally, there's an increase in appropriations of $2 million for infrastructure related to
 bond refinancing in the district that would be used for an eligible tax exempt project in the district. Very good. So I'm now calling for well, first of all, does anybody have any questions? It was succinct into the point. Thank you. I'm now calling for any individual amendments to the memo from commissioners and of course you need to specifically state amount of purpose if you want to make any amendments. And it's my understanding, Director Branham, there are no amendments you need me to bring on behalf of the Bureau.
 There's potentially several amendments related to the city of Portland budget before you. They'll be voted on tomorrow, I believe, that would impact this budget. So I'd recommend potentially continuing this budget as well after public testimony. Ah, very good. Okay, I was not aware of that, but I'm sure we're happy to do that. Very good. So does anybody have any amendments at this particular juncture? Very good. Okay, public testimony.
 Who has stuck around? Let's find out. Dr. Jim Guadino and Jackie Walker. Okay. Everybody's in chambers. And all the other rooms are closed at this point? Okay, thank you very much. Okay, so we obviously don't have any amendments, therefore we don't need any motions or second. And you'd like us to go ahead and continue this hearing then until tomorrow afternoon? Do we need a time certain?
 So we picked 3.30 I believe it was, time certain for the budget hearing. What time do you want to say for this? It depends on how long your amendments would take, but maybe 4? Is that realistic? And then if you start... But you can do it after the time. You can do it after the time, sir, and you just can't do it before. So if you said 4 and you don't take it up to 4.30, that's fine. That's fine. Okay.
 We'll go ahead and do that, but with the understanding that it'll probably be later than that for those who want to actually come in. Great. I may take it the record is closed. And the record is closed. And I just want to state that I will check to see if those two individuals who wanted to speak had sent us emails, and if they did, I'll be sure to read them. Yeah, that would actually be helpful. Thank you.
 Very good. Okay, so that completes items number 477 and 478. 480 got moved. 479, I doubt that individual is still here. So what do we want to do on 479, Mustafa? The item was moved. It has already been moved. So 479 and 480, they've both been moved? To when?
 479 is actually, I'm sorry. Could you come speak into the microphone please? Just speak into the microphone just so it's on the record and other people can hear. Don't be shy. Mustafa Washington with the Mayor's Office. 479 has been recalled back to our office, Mayor.
 because we knew this was gonna be a long day, so we tried to cut some things short. So we took the PSAP appointment and we called it back to our office and our policy team is gonna bring it back. I don't think the item has been read though. Can you please read it just because I honestly can't remember whether we read it or not. Can you read 479 please? Oh, we need Carla. Carla, can you read 479? We're pulling it back. Did he read it?
 Did we already read that? Was Prosper Portland adjourned? Yeah. Yeah, sorry, we're adjourned. It was. Prosper Portland. You may go. Thank you.
 479. Appoint Britton Massback to the Portland Committee on Community Engaged Policing for a term to expire June 30, 2020. Very good and due to the long day and not wanting to keep the appointee sitting around we are going to reschedule that for tomorrow afternoon. No?
 Okay, so we'll work on it's a student. So we're gonna work around the students schedule. Very good All right, and then 480 you announced earlier that there was a reschedule But I think Carla could call the item and then you could state the new time Yes, if I can remember when the new time was 480 is revised residential solid waste and recycling collection rates and charges effective July 1 2019 I have the new date as May 29th 2 p.m. Time certain very good. I
 Excellent. Thank you, Carla. We are adjourned.