All right, Susan, are you ready? All right, good afternoon. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council, May 25, 2017. Susan, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Udalli. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Matt. Thank you.
 Jane Leo in the ladies' room just reminded me about Memorial Day coming up, and many of us are thinking about it being a three-day weekend and those kinds of things. I also want to recognize that people lost their lives in service of this country. So if you've been in the military, would you please stand? Thank you.
 So as somebody from England who will never forget that the American military saved the world in World War I and World War II, I just want to say thank you and that let's all remember that as we're having our barbecues and doing our yard work. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Colleagues, I'll not read the entire statement because, frankly, I'm getting tired of reading it. If everybody could just be nice and respectful and civil.
 Respect people's testimony. Respect the council deliberations. And everybody gets their say up at the microphone when it's their turn. Three minutes, state your name for the record. If you're a lobbyist, say that. If you're with an organization, that's helpful too. We don't boo people, hear or hiss at them or anything else. If you don't like something, thumbs down works. If you really like something,
 What did Tom Potter call this? Twinkle fingers? Jazz hands, thank you. Jazz hands. Thumbs up. A.K.A. twinkle fingers. Well, twinkle fingers is when you're watching your sons to get the free throw. Then you do twinkle fingers. And we also give style points if people have their own creation. Style points are great. Typically, we give three minutes, about two and a half minutes into your testimony. You'll see a yellow light flash and a beep. Three minutes in...
 The red light goes on and there's even more buzzers. You'll get the hint pretty quickly. So at any rate, everybody just have a good day. So with that, we had one item that we were pulling over from yesterday. We ran out of time, and it was item 551 from the regular agenda. Susan, could you please read the item? Okay.
 Item 551, authorize an agreement with Clackamas County in the amount of $210,425 to acquire a 30-acre conservation and access easement. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. We're joined by Mike Stewart, Director of the Water Bureau, and Steve Kouchis, who is the Environmental Compliance Manager. The Water Bureau has successfully completed conservation easements with willing private landowners since 2010 – excuse me, since 2010. Okay.
 obtaining 246 acres of conservation easement area in the Sandy River watershed. This conservation easement is anticipated to be the final acquisition for this part of the Bureau's Habitation Conservation Plan and will complete the agreed-upon requirements for this measure eight years earlier than anticipated. Director Stewart. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. We're here today for kind of a good news story.
 As Commissioner Fish mentioned, this is about our habitat conservation plan. The HCP is a 50-year plan, that's long-range planning for you, to protect and improve aquatic habitat in the Bull Run River and Greater Sandy River watershed. It helps us comply with the Endangered Species Act and the Clean Water Act as a result of our operations operating a water supply in the watershed.
 We have a lot of projects to do under the HCP. They're front-loaded mostly in the first part of the 50-year schedule, and the original estimated value of the HCP was $93 million. What we're here to do today is hopefully consummate an agreement with Clackamas County in the amount of $210,425 to acquire a 30-acre conservation and access easement. Okay.
 One other thing I'd like to mention on the Habitat Conservation Plan, and that is it's very important for regulatory certainty. By having a Habitat Conservation Plan, basically we have made an agreement with the federal agencies that applies for 50 years, so until 2060.
 And if we did not have such an agreement, virtually every one of our actions that were not on our dam per se, we would be subject to EISs and all kinds of other things. So the HCP, which was led by our resource protection group, is really important for the future of the Bureau and make our operations efficient.
 I'd like to turn this over now to Steve Kuches, who will give you a briefing on the project itself. Good afternoon. I'm Steve Kuches. I'm the Environmental Compliance Manager of the Portland Water Bureau. And I just have five slides for you, go through really quickly. The first one, you might wonder, well, where is this conservation easement? It's on the Sandy River, and you see the little purple mark. It's about at the town of Welch's off Highway 26, as you're on your way up to Mount Hood. So it's in that area.
 This is actually a picture of the area. It's quite nice looking. That stream is a very productive little stream. It's not in perfect shape. Most of our conservation easements require a little bit of work for the trees. We're trying to get the site potential best conifers and big trees there to provide shading and a lot of other fish habitat. But it's starting out, if we're acquiring this easement, in fairly good shape. So that translates into less money in terms of the improvements.
 On the good news side, we've already mentioned that our easement program with this last acquisition may be coming to our goal eight years sooner than we first planned. When we looked at everything under our HCP, we're able to estimate the fisheries benefits that would accrue with each action. We also have done that with the conservation easement program. I'm not trying to get you to memorize the numbers here, but this is just the magnitude of what was in our original target program.
 for conservation easements in total for the HCP. And the good news is...
 this is what we will achieve with this last easement being 30 acres. So what, the reason this has happened when we did this HCP back in 2009, 2010, we had a bunch of targets identified for conservation easements throughout the Sandy with changing land ownerships and moving our targets. We actually found more productive areas and,
 And we were able to do that, and these would obviously result in more fish for the money. And actually our acquisition of the easements have turned out to be cheaper than we originally projected. So it's good news all around from our perspective. And lastly, you always finish when you're talking about fish with pictures of fish. Those are two coho salmon in that very creek in the conservation easement area.
 So we feel very good about it. And if you have any questions, we're willing to take them, please. Since we now have more fish, do we set a higher target for the next 10 years? Or does it just check that off and just keep it as it is? For the conservation easement, once they mature, they will make more fish habitat. You'll get more fish associated with that. And so the numbers I showed you in the little histogram were as if they were all in good shape in the future. But we don't have to do anything...
 Next. I mean, we just make sure it stays in good order. We don't have to set a new target of double what we've got already or anything like that. Yes, Commissioner. That's exactly right. Well done. Very good. We'll stand by. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Seeing no public testimony and no further questions from the Council, this is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, gentlemen, for your patience and thank you for coming back today.
 Please read the next item, which is our one and only time-certain item for this afternoon. Item 564, amend relocation assistance regulations in affordable housing preservation and Portland renter protections. Colleagues, I'm happy to bring forward these technical fixes to you today. As everybody in this room is aware, we're in a housing emergency.
 Rents continue to increase and families continue to be faced with very difficult decisions. Should I take a 20% rate increase or move 45 minutes away from my place of employment and potentially out of my kids' school district? Should I pay my rent or my phone bill this month?
 Should I report this black mold and potentially be evicted or not report it and stay? These are very real questions that have been asked by people who we have spoken to throughout this process. This is an emergency, and we need to continue to do everything that we can to improve the experiences of both renters and families who are experiencing housing instability.
 While we've been aggressively advocating at the state capitol for additional tools, like the Just Cause Eviction Standard and rent stabilization, that could help us address this emergency much faster, we know that we do have tools here currently that can help us to make real progress.
 In February of this year, the council mandated that landlords in the city of Portland pay relocation assistance to tenants experiencing rent increases of 10% or more and tenants being evicted for no cause. I want to thank in particular Commissioner Udaly who co-sponsored that legislation and fought tirelessly for it and worked with many, many people in the community to help make that a reality.
 I'm going to let Matt go through the details of this policy. I mainly wanted to acknowledge the community advocacy and leadership around this policy. There was an abundance of public testimony from housing justice advocates, community groups, and landlords and tenants alike, and it became clear that the community at large had a handful of outstanding questions about the mandatory relocation assistance legislation.
 Therefore, mandatory relocation assistance was passed, but with amendments that mandated the Housing Bureau to assemble an advisory group of landlords, tenants, and other interested parties to identify technical issues within the legislation and propose solutions to the issues identified.
 The Technical Advisory Committee met several times throughout March and April and has compiled their concerns as well as proposed amendments for the Council's deliberations today. The amendments before us were recommended unanimously by the Advisory Committee. Each meeting included time for public testimony, and input was included and considered in the drafting of amendments to this legislation.
 To prevent the specific issues flagged by the Technical Advisory Committee, I'll turn this over to Matthew Shebold and Victoria James from the Portland Housing Bureau. Mayor, I have a brief opening. Commissioner Fish. Thank you. As the author of the amendment that is underlying this, I just want to say a couple things. At the last time we took up rental relocation, it became clear that there were some ambiguities in the statute. There were some potential unintended consequences.
 And there were people on all sides of this issue that said they wanted to have a chance to sit down and see if they could address those issues. So I think it was important for us to set up this process. I want to acknowledge, though, that we added this burden onto the Portland Housing Bureau on top of already a full plate.
 And I know that we've asked a lot of them in the last year. So I want to just acknowledge the director and his team for stepping up and doing this. And I also want to, Mayor, thank the folks from the community that comprise the stakeholder committee who came together and gave their time to look at these issues. Again, we asked a lot of people, and it's a near miracle that this is back to us as quickly as it is. And I want to thank everyone who participated. Thank you.
 So for the record, Matthew Schaubold with the Portland Housing Bureau. So a lot of the context has already been given, but I want to give a little bit of context that we gave to the technical advisory group. So the housing bureau is very specific. You can see the membership on the slides that we've got put up. We don't have a slide. Oh, okay. There we go. So this is the membership of the organizations and individuals that served on the technical advisory group.
 And we were very candid from the front that the mandate to the group was technical in nature. And it was to look at the code that was passed by city council and the policy intent by council, but to make the technical changes that many individuals had testified to and many individuals after the hearing had brought up as issues that needed to be resolved. But what the Bureau did honor was we said that
 We know there are people that have policy concerns, and we will bring those forward to City Council so that they can be aware of the policy concerns. The Bureau won't take a position on those policy concerns at this time because it's not within the scope of the technical advisory group. And that is the memo that we submitted to you all yesterday, and we're going to actually walk through some of them today.
 So as we walk through our discussion today, we've broken it into technical issues and then those policy questions that we told our members of the group that we bring forward. And the technical issues fell into a few categories, one where there was a clarification needed. So these were just questions about the interpretation of the code. And upon hearing these clarifications, there was not a strong opinion from the technical group that –
 a code change was needed, but simply the clarification from the Housing Bureau and the City Attorney's Office was sufficient. The second was the
 more of a jurisdictional question around is should this rest in city code is this a matter between two private parties a renter and a property owner renting the property in terms of the structure of an agreement or is this an issue that has to be adjudicated in the court system and for these the housing bureau worked in close partnership with the city attorney's office and so i want to
 Particularly thank Lisa for a lot of the work that she had put into this during short time frames to parse these issues. And the Bureau came back to the technical group to identify from the city's perspective whether this was a code issue, a matter between private parties in a rental agreement, or a matter for the court system.
 And then the third are where there are amendments that are being recommended by the Housing Bureau. And I do want to flag that we are recommending a series of technical amendments, and we are bringing one policy amendment forward. And I'll discuss why when we get to that amendment. And also acknowledge that that was not part of our scope, but that there was a robust conversation around that.
 I'll turn it over to Victoria to talk through some technical clarifications. So, for the record, Victoria James with the Portland Housing Bureau.
 The clarifications that we have, the first one is around exemptions that are offered at the state level around landlord-tenant laws and that those would extend into our ordinance as well. And so those cover things like vacation occupancy, fraternal and social occupancy, and people residing at institutions such as medical institutions or hospitals.
 educational institutions. So the exceptions offered at the state level would also be offered under this ordinance. We also clarified that the 10% rent increase within a 12-month period, that 12-month period would begin at the last time that there was a rent increase rather than some other date. There was an ask of the group that we define bedroom, to which we clarified that... Pardon me. That bedroom is already...
 given a definition under city code in Title 29. And the last one on this slide is around the associated housing costs. There was an ongoing questions about whether or not the associated housing cost is calculated as part of that 10% rent increase, and we clarified that it is not. This slide basically pertains to whether or not it is the landlord
 increasing the rent. So this first bullet point pertains to if there is a raise in utility costs, that is not technically the landlord increasing rent. If a tenant is opting for additional services such as a pet fee, an additional parking stall, or storage, that's also not the landlord increasing the rent. And lastly, we flagged that...
 Affordable housing and regulated affordable housing have limited applicability under relocation assistance, mostly because usually the federal, state, or local level is setting the income eligibility and the maximum rent that can be charged under those situations. So technically it would not be the landlord increasing the rent up to that 10%.
 So with respect to some of the jurisdictional questions, we had a number of scenarios that were brought forward by members of the technical group or members of the public around how relocation assistance requirements and timing reconciled if there was a lawsuit.
 either a lawsuit brought by the property owner or the renter. And there were a number of different scenarios where someone was issued a no cause and it converted to a for cause, somebody was issued a no cause and the renter wanted to challenge it. And for these kinds of scenarios, again, upon consultation with the city attorney's office, given the nuance and the number of individual circumstances that could occur, we agree that this is...
 best resolved in the court system, that if there is a lawsuit, the judge will also make a ruling on relocation assistance payments as a part of the entirety of the ruling. These three bullets here kind of cover that.
 There were some questions around whether or not upon mutual agreement a renter could pay back relocation assistance and stay in the unit if they changed their mind or if the landlord decided to adjust their rent increase rate.
 even though they'd already issued the notice and thus were required to pay relocation assistance. And so there were a number of scenarios where it would be a mutual consent, and given that, it would need to be a transaction between two private parties where both the property renter and the owner of the rental property would need to agree that the condition of whatever the circumstance may be is agreed to by both parties.
 For the second bullet here, there's a lot of questions around, well, if a landlord only owns one duplex with one unit occupied, what?
 and the other unit is vacant, is that landlord technically renting the unit in the Portland market, or are they only renting a single rental dwelling unit in the city of Portland? And if, in fact, again, upon consultation with the city attorneys, if, in fact, that unit is vacant and the landlord is not actively renting it, yes, they currently only have one dwelling unit in the city of Portland, then the landlord is not actively renting it.
 but the circumstances could be so unique that that would really be a case-by-case scenario that would either need to be worked out between the renter and the landlord or adjudicated by the court system. And then finally, the last bullet was for new apartments or new leases in the last 12 months primarily, but could be for lease continuations in the event that a tenant
 of a rental property, gives concessions to the renter, two months free rent, a month free rent to move in, as to whether or not in that second year when the renter has to pay rent every single month, would the addition of that one month or two months of rent in the second year trigger relocation assistance. And again, upon consultation with the city attorney's office, that would need to be specified in that rental agreement that...
 the concessions are being given, but the aggregate rent is such that it would not trigger reload or vice versa, however the agreement is formed. So, again, these are aspects, both what Victoria mentioned on just clarifications to the group and the public, as well as these questions of jurisdiction that upon either giving feedback to the group, they were content with not making code changes around those issues, or that the guidance of the Bureau and the city attorney's
 was that it wasn't appropriate in the city code. So we do have some proposed code amendments that we're going to walk through really quick. Victoria will talk a little bit about the technical amendments, and then I will have a discussion with members of council about the one policy recommendation we're bringing forward.
 All right, so the four proposed technical code amendments are, firstly, there was a lot of concern that if a landlord only had one unit, technically they would be exempt under RELO. There was concern that if they then had that property managed by a property management company who owned many different units, whether or not they would lose that exemption. So we're proposing to say that landlords with one unit are exempt, even if they're using a property management company.
 The second proposed code change would be that relocation assistance is given on a per-unit basis rather than a per-tenant basis. Thirdly, that rent increases are calculated on a rolling basis, and this goes back to one of the clarifications that I mentioned, which is basically...
 that question around how is that 10% increase within a 12-month period calculated, and it would just be calculated based on the time of the last rent increase. So rolling basis on rent increases. And then lastly...
 There was a lot of concern from the landlord side about what would happen if the relocation assistance funds were issued, but then that tenant did not leave the unit. And so we're clarifying that a renter must repay the relocation assistance if they do not terminate their rental agreement, which is to say if they stay in the unit. Thank you.
 So with respect to the one policy amendment we're bringing forward, we acknowledge that this was outside the scope of the technical mandate, but this was something that was very strongly felt on both sides of the issue. Both renters and landlords felt that 14 days was not enough time. On the renter's side of the equation, it was not enough time to really assess
 whether or not there was, they should move, they should make a life decision. It's a quick time to see what's out there in the rental market, to try and secure new housing, and thus then notify the landlord that they wanted to request relocation assistance and that they intended to move out.
 On the landlord side, there were a number of issues that came up both with respect to for some property managers that were part of a national corporation, they had to get authorization from a corporate office to make these payments, and sometimes that corporate office was not in the state.
 For folks that were managing single-family homes that were owned by other people, they would need to request the cash be deposited into the account of the property management firm and then that cash be dispersed. There were some folks that said that they only processed checks internally. They were on a system by which they processed check payments every month, and so a 14-day window was not working for their operational procedures.
 What I do want to mention is there wasn't uniform
 that there should be an extension for both landlords and tenants. Depending on which side of the discussion folks were on, they had different perspectives. But what the Bureau said was, given that the mandate of this group is technical changes only, the Bureau will not move forward with making a policy recommendation to City Council unless there is unanimous support.
 amongst the entire technical committee for whatever that policy change is. And so it was quite a long discussion. It was about an hour and a half discussion at least around whether or not the group could come to consensus on a policy recommendation around extending the number of days
 And while I think it's fair to say that not everybody on the group was happy with 31 days, they were willing to compromise extending the timeframe from 14 to 31 for both parties in the transaction. Because absent that, there would have been no policy recommendation back to you all. It would have just been flagged in the policy questions section later.
 So given that there was unanimous support and given that there was a significant amount of feedback that 14 days was too short a period of time for both parties, we are bringing this one policy recommendation back to city council.
 So with that, we're going to briefly go through the policy questions. Again, our commitment to the technical committee was that we would summarize the policy questions, and we would present them to city council on the record, and that the Housing Bureau would not be taking a position on these, but to flag them in exchange for their participation in the process. So...
 There was a lot of input that there were unintended impacts going on in the housing stock and market. Again, the Housing Bureau is not verifying these or not verifying these, but there are claims that more homes are being sold, single-family dwelling units were being sold. Sure.
 that rent increases were occurring at a 9.9% rate rather than a 10% rate, that rental units were being removed from the housing stock, that new rental units were only being provided outside city limits. So there were a lot of these claims that were being made as a consequence of the impact on the housing stock and the housing market. There was a lot of discussion around impacts of income tax obligations and requirements,
 There are a number of property management firms that said in order to meet their IRS compliance that this is a payment to an individual, that they needed to request the completion of a W-9 so they could issue a 1099 given the payment amount and that it was considered a W-9.
 source of income. And on the renter side, there was some concerns that if this was considered income, which in, we've talked to some of our own accountants, that it could be depending on personal circumstances, it could also impact not just, it could not only just create a tax liability, but it could impact people's benefits if they're low income and they're receiving some sort of public benefits. Okay.
 For that particular tax year, some people are right on that edge. It could push them where they would see lower benefits or they would lose benefits in that particular tax year. So could you be explicit about how does this address that issue? How does it fix that problem? So we're not addressing it. This is just a policy. They are just flagging that. We're flagging this as a policy concern of members of the group.
 And can I ask you, I know you're not the tax lawyer, and I know you're not making a recommendation, but is there anything in current law that prevents, I mean, we have our attorney here, actually, we could ask. Is there anything in current law that precludes a landlord or a managing agent from issuing a 1099 without a W-9? I don't know. You don't know the answer to that? Okay. Well, we're going to hear later then. Okay. And does what we have allow the tenant to say, thank you, but I don't want the relocation money? No.
 Because it would push me off of my benefits? Yeah, I mean, the tenant doesn't have to request the relocation assistance. But some folks that work a lot with renters had suggested that there's no real information out there that this could create a potential income tax liability or potentially push people's incomes to a level where they could lose other public benefits. Yeah, you know, I hope we will take a harder look at that because I think –
 Tax policy is pretty thorny, right? We all know that. And for people to know personally where that exact threshold is and when they cross that threshold, that's asking a lot, in my opinion. And this isn't a new issue. I mean, this has come up year after year after year, and it seems like it's probably a statewide fix we should be advocating for. But I don't want to lose sight of that. I don't know the tax issues here, so I'm not going to speculate, but –
 it may be that it impacts people differently based on their circumstances. I'm not sure that it is – it strikes me it would not be particularly onerous to require the issuer of the check to have an agreed-upon document that just says, among other things, this may have a tax consequence to you and you are encouraged to seek –
 you know, an opinion on it or something so that you're just giving people a notice but not getting in the business of giving advice.
 I mean, I think sometimes just alerting someone to the fact that there may be an issue, particularly if they're assuming that it doesn't create an issue, might be valuable. But we don't have a recommendation before us, and this is for further consideration. Yeah. Oh, sorry, Commissioner. As far as impact to benefits go, that is something that we looked at and felt that the risk was –
 nominal and temporary, but it is something people should be aware of for sure.
 And I think this speaks to a bigger issue that came up that's kind of across these policy questions, which is that at this point the primary role of the city and the city institutions was the adoption of this code by council and that there isn't any programming associated with it. And I think that might be the –
 Yeah, that's the next slide, actually. So there was a lot of questions around there's no culturally specific or language specific interpretation of this in plain language, that there's no education provided by the city overall from a programming standpoint for landlords or for renters, that –
 that thus far there's not a program staff that's out there. I mean, in the mayor's budget, there is the creation of an Office of Landlord-Tenant Affairs, which could have this function, but it's a deficit on both sides. Both parties saw a need for more information, a dedicated phone number that folks could call. And I think we've seen there's coverage. There's been coverage between the mayor's staff, Commissioner Udali's staff, the Housing Bureau staff,
 But that is something that has emerged that seems to be a need on all sides. In the short term, couldn't we simply encourage landlord associations to pull
 pull together an FAQ to discuss with their members and then put something on our website that is easily accessible. It simply flags issues, because I think what we're talking about now is flagging issues. We're not necessarily giving legal advice. Right. So, I mean, LASSO, Legal Aid Services of Oregon, and the Law Center have worked together on a similar document. Commissioner Udaly's office has, the mayor's office has, the
 The Housing Bureau has posted the document from Legal Aid Services because we contract with them. I know that Community Alliance of Tenants, Portland Tenants United, Multifamily Northwest, they all have done this. So in the short term, I think we have addressed it somewhat, but this still was an ask of the committee to come back to council and say, we think that if this is going to be a part of city code, the city should have more of a role in rolling it out and informing the public.
 Okay. Continuing on, I guess, with the proposed policy changes. Okay.
 There was a lot of conversations around circumstances that could render a landlord in a difficult position to be able to pay the relocation assistance. So there was a proposal that there be a hardship assessment or some kind of hardship waiver for landlords that are unable to pay relocation assistance to a tenant. There was also an issue flagged around the...
 and timing between the 90-day notice for an eviction of a tenant and the 60-day occupancy for FHA. Then there was... Excuse me, I don't understand that. Could you explain what the 60-day thing is? Okay, so in the event that you're a landlord who has a unit that you have a tenant in and you're wanting to sell that unit, you are...
 mandated by law to give that person a 90-day notice because you're wanting to evict them so you can sell the unit. Meanwhile, the buyer
 a subsidy for their mortgage to buy this new unit. And if they're using the Federal Housing Administration loan, the FHA loan, they're required on their side by law to occupy that unit for 60 days. So if you are the seller, there's kind of a mismatch in time frames between giving that 90-day notice and that person to...
 Sorry. There's a mismatch between that and then the person coming in, which would basically, it puts the seller in a difficult position because they either need to prematurely sort of issue that 90-day notice to make sure that they're giving the buyer enough time to have that 60-day occupancy. So that was an issue that was flagged. I don't know if I've explained that sufficiently. Okay.
 but it's not one that we're currently changing. I'll get to it next time then. If I may, I think...
 Jane Leo, who is a part of our technical group, is here and will be part of invited testimony and can speak to this issue. This one is one that isn't exclusively associated with relocation assistance. It has to do with the extended 90-day notice more so because the relocation assistance fits into that 90-day time frame that's already in our local landlord-tenant law. But it has been an issue that she and her membership have flagged. So...
 There was also an issue flagged around whether or not landlords should be able to withhold the relocation assistance if there is damage to the unit that surpasses the security deposit or what the security deposit could cover. There were several flags around whether or not relocation assistance should be income-based rather than extend to everybody within Portland city limits.
 There was an issue flagged. Right now there is an exemption given to landlords renting out a unit that is their primary residence, and they get that exemption if they're renting out that unit up to three years, and there was a request that that three-year limit be extended to maybe five years or something, something higher than three years in any case. And lastly, there was...
 There was a gentleman who came in for public testimony who suggested that because this policy is meant to sort of mitigate or counteract displacement, that displacement was actually something that was sort of brought forward by the developers, that the developers are sort of making that displacement a problem, and therefore it should be the developers, not the landlords, that are paying relocation assistance. Okay.
 Oh, just kidding, that wasn't the last one. We have one more slide. Then there was a question around whether or not relocation assistance should be mandated to be paid in a lump sum or whether we should break it up into installment payments.
 And there were some folks that suggested that maybe we should mandate the use of escrow accounts so that there is a sort of third party that holds the relocation assistance funds to make sure that the landlord is paying them for it and that the tenant is getting them. So what's the default? What's happening under the current rules? Are they allowed to meter it out over three months, or is our current rule so you have to give the lump sum?
 I'm sorry, are they allowed to pay it in installments? We don't know. We don't collect data on what's going on in the market. We know anecdotally and...
 So the community alliance of tenants does collect information from the clients that they're working with. But as far as like a comprehensive assessment of what's going on, if there's an agreement to it, a landlord could pay the entire thing at once. The requirements are that they have it paid by, so for instance, in the event of a no-cause eviction,
 there's a requirement that it's paid within 45 days after the notice is given. All of it? All of it. Now, it doesn't specify in code as to whether it's paid every week up until the 45 days and it's paid completely by the 45th day, but it does say it must be paid by the 45th day. So in theory, it could go either way, but we don't actually have a good assessment of what's happening. Okay.
 It's similar on the other side with the 14-day time frame. Can I seek just a clarification on something? So when does our state of emergency officially terminate? I mean, I want to check, but I believe it's midnight on October the 6th. October the 6th. 1201 October the 7th, I should say. So we have a question that we're going to take up as a council about whether to extend the state of emergency, and if so, under what terms. So that's number one.
 Number two, we'll have a question about whether we're going to extend this program and under what terms. So just so I understand these policy questions, absent the council directing the Bureau to come back with specific recommendations, these are your flagging issues for us that came out of this process, which we could either choose to look at now or we could choose to look at in October or we could choose not to look at. Is that right on the policy side? Correct.
 That's correct. And is there any – so you've given us a redline version of the ordinance, which contains the technical changes for our consideration. Does the Bureau believe that any of these policy questions raise urgent questions that we should be addressing sooner between now and when the housing emergency is up for renewal? Or are you playing Switzerland on that too? No.
 I think that of the policy questions that are most substantial, I don't know how realistically it could be addressed in time for the, under the current sunset.
 So there are some challenging questions around hardship waivers in the event that, I mean, there's lots of personal circumstances as to why an owner of a single rental property may be evicting someone and getting rid of that property. And the establishment of a hardship waiver process is just not feasible between now and October. And so as a practical matter, if the council decides,
 if some member of council or the council decides that any of these policy questions should be looked at more closely, the logical time to do that would be in the fall when we are looking at renewal. That's the time frame that is probably more logical. Is that right? Correct. And that would give the Bureau more time to evaluate these issues and make recommendations. Correct. Thank you.
 Very good, colleagues. Do you have more? We have invited testimony from the technical committee members. I don't know if there were questions first or if we wanted to do questions afterward. I have a question for you. Commissioner Daly. Sure. I mean, you went into this a little bit, but I just want to clarify. Everyone's been saying these amendments were the result of a unanimous decision. Okay. But would you characterize the decision process as a true consensus process? Yes.
 Because we've gotten feedback from members of the committee who clearly aren't in agreement with some of the pieces of the amendment. The policy recommendation was unanimous. The others, we collected feedback from the technical group, but in the end said that the Housing Bureau would be making the final recommendation.
 And so the only, because the scope from the amendment, from Commissioner Fish's amendment, was to look at the technical changes, the policy recommendation was one we felt like we could not move forward without absolute unanimous consent. Okay. Mayor, do you want to take the panel? Let's do the, unless people have other questions, let's go with the panel. So the first panel, Jessica Greenlee, Katrina Holland, and Elisa Harrigan.
 And we will follow up with a second panel, Margo Black and Jane Leo. Good morning. And if you could just state your names for the record. Sure. Oh, yeah. Thank you. It is afternoon, isn't it? In a room with no windows, it all looks the same. So my name is Katrina Holland, Executive Director of Community Alliance of Tenants. Thank you, members of council, for having us here today. And thank you for this invitation.
 Important time for us as renters, as landlords, to discuss these technical issues and flag these policy issues that are critical to the success of this program, both now and potentially in the future, should we decide to implement it in the long term as a city. I want to be clear that...
 Community Alliance of Tenants is emphasizing that we definitely need additional protections post the state legislative session. So, yes, we are in a crisis right now, and we understand that the Portland relocation ordinance may set to expire on October 7th, given the housing emergency declaration ending at that time. But we do have very long-term issues to address. And so we encourage council to think about this policy as a long-term policy to implement. Thank you.
 and to continue to work collaboratively with landlords, with renters, with the county to implement some very important tenant protections moving forward. So the impact of relocation, I can say from the Community Alliance tenants' perspective, given that we counsel about 200 calls per month with a volume that is probably three times that, was definitely felt in terms of...
 Minimizing no-cause evictions, the impact wasn't as deeply felt because no-cause evictions and rent increases are still the top two calls that we hear on the hotline. However, we did hear from tenants that it did help to mitigate some of the financial impact of being told to move with no warning. So in a sense, it did provide support for mitigating the impact of no-cause evictions.
 In terms of, I think it's a little bit too premature to see if there was any long-term effect, whether it increased the housing stability of families or prevented families from moving into homelessness, because obviously the cost of moving is really, really high. And a lot of families, particularly the families that we work with and serve, still face very high barriers to getting into housing and maintaining housing in terms of financial perspective. Okay.
 I would also say that as a result of this policy, additional harassment is also a problem that we've seen an unintended consequence. And I would love the council to begin thinking about how to address as we discuss this important issue. In particular, we did hear that one landlord retaliated and there was a recent ice raid within the last few days.
 There's definitely a significant imbalance between landlord and tenant. And so, like I said, we must continue to work to balance this important symbiotic relationship because they need each other. The technical advisory committee was extremely helpful in identifying issues, although somewhat uncomfortable because some of the conversations were tense. I'm pretty sure we can all agree on that.
 But it was really great to see landlords and tenants and advocates coming together to work out the kinks, so this is an effective policy. I would definitely encourage council to continue in this manner moving forward as we consider long-term issues or potentially extending the emergency, whichever looks best. I think to answer your question, Commissioner Udaly, about whether or not we would characterize...
 the decision as true consensus or unanimous. It definitely wasn't. I think we have to think equitably about the,
 that people are facing. We're talking about families that could potentially be homeless if they don't receive relocation assistance versus an organization or a landlord keeping with accounting procedures or operations. It's very, very different in nature. And so, yes, we agree because it was very clear that tenants...
 said 14 days is not enough time. And it's not in this market, and we definitely need more. But 31 days for the turnaround to receive a check was pretty difficult to agree to. But we need more time on both sides, so we agreed. Okay.
 I would also say that one of the things that we took away from this and that I would really encourage the council to take away from this as we move forward in implementing additional protections in this market is that the devil is in the details. Moving forward and thinking about long-term policy implementation, continuing these technical advisory meetings would be important. I know that it's very time-consuming. It is a drag on the staff, but it is really helpful in terms of bringing folks together to discuss these important issues and work out these details. Thank you.
 and overall we'd say that this was very helpful and we applaud the city council's leadership in appointing this group and we look forward to continuing the journey with the city with all stakeholders in the rental market at various levels of government with the city, with the county or joined together and at the state level we definitely have a ways to go I want to make sure to emphasize this again we have a ways to go to achieve equitable outcomes in this important sector of our market
 and we're ready to do the work to make it happen. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Sure. Katrina, did we have the right people around the table? When I say we, when the Housing Bureau convened the Technical Advisory Stakeholder Committee, did we have the right people around the table? I would say so. I mean, I think that there definitely, we lacked some representation in terms of,
 Culturally specific organizations and folks that may have witnessed the impact of relocation or the impacts of no-cause evictions and rent increases a little bit more broadly across intersectional streams. So I think, but I think in terms of addressing the critical questions in a technical manner, yes. Yes.
 And you also mentioned the potential, in some of the calls you're getting, people are telling you that they're being retaliated against for exercising the statute.
 Did you or the committee consider any additional protections that we should consider to address retaliation? Oh, yes. We have a whole slew. I'd be happy to bring forward some of those recommendations. I think that's something we'll want to talk about, particularly if this is extended. Okay. So we would welcome that from you and I think also from the technical committee. Absolutely. I'd be happy to provide that. Right now or? No, we can do it. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. No problem. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Hi, my name is Jessica Greenlee. I'm the operations manager at Affinity Property Management. Thank you all for listening here today. I especially want to thank Matt, Victoria, and Davisha for making the process very productive. I felt like being included in this, that they made sure that each meeting we are moving forward towards some consensus and addressing each of these issues. And I really appreciated that.
 Some of the recommendations made by the Bureau, I think, well, the vast majority of landlords want to comply with the law. And having that clarity in place is important to make sure that we are complying with the intent and not making missteps in that process. And so some of the recommendations made by the Bureau help to guide that to make sure we are in full compliance with that regulation. And...
 So some of the other issues, though, that were brought forward in the policy concerns I would like to talk about for a minute, specifically revolving around the W-9 and the 1099 situation. From an accounting perspective, for federal regulations, we have to have a W-9 in order to issue the 1099. And there is a requirement to issue a 1099.
 for any payment made more than $600. So, and I also think that the W-9 could be a catalyst for a conversation with tenants who might be receiving a relocation assistance so that they become aware that this is forthcoming and it does not come as a surprise to them.
 it could be very helpful to include that language in here. So if it does come up with the tenant stating, you know, we need to receive this paperwork from you in order to issue this payment, that they understand why and that it's clarified that it is a requirement of the relocation assistance policy. I think that there probably is still a long way to go in...
 clarification towards some of the language in here. Housing and the meetings probably brought that very much to the forefront. It is complex in its layers, specifically regarding affordable units. I think that Home Forward brought forward a lot of great points that weren't necessarily easy to outline within the ordinance itself. It took additional clarification back and forth with the city's attorney to...
 gain that clarity that was necessary to fully understand what the ordinance did apply to and did not apply to in that situation. So hopefully we're able to continue to move forward with this discussion and that this ordinance evolves when you revisit this in the fall. Thank you. We appreciate your participation. Thank you.
 Hi, good afternoon. Alisa Harrigan with Meyer Memorial Trust. I'm also a PHAC executive committee member. So I wanted to start out with giving a special thanks to Victoria and Matthew for shepherding the process.
 There were a lot of strong opinions. It was very dynamic conversation about the policy. The process was pretty efficient and guided with the charge of the focus at hand, which was the technical components of it. For that piece of it, I did think it was equitable in the fact that folks did get the chance to talk about the technical components
 it's difficult to separate the conversation of just the technical pieces without some of the policy components because they do interlay. And so I think the technical components, folks did have a chance, there was a lot of consensus when it came to some of the larger, thornier issues.
 I think more conversation, this was a pretty fast process, is needed and to really have an equity focus on there of who are we trying to impact and what is the ultimate intent that council had in the beginning of this. I'd also like to thank Lisa from the City Attorney's Office. We threw a lot of challenging questions at her and she answered.
 was very good and gave very lawyerly-like responses and was very helpful in her guidance when she was able to provide guidance.
 So the technical group was made up of a variety of different interests, renters, owners, social service providers, other folks who are experts in the field. I think one of the questions is this is a challenging topic, and so being mindful of keeping folks who have expertise in the area versus just getting kind of broader and broader and just having a variety of lenses on it if you want to get to something that is actually going to be –
 able to be utilized in a meaningful and effective way. So I thought that it was a large group, but it did represent a variety of interests in the city that we have here.
 The technical group was reminded often and did stay on focus with our charge of being to review technical changes. Because there were policy issues that came up, the Bureau did provide space for folks to flag them, and as you've seen, a number of those are on there. And so I think folks really appreciated being able to have the space to flag those critical policy issues, but also really be able to stay focused on the technical changes that was requested by Council.
 The main policy issue I do want to just flag, and I know Matthew spoke to it, is the 14-day issue. So there was strong agreement that the 14 days was too short for both renters and landlords. There was critical concern about that. So I do want to emphasize that as something that the committee, not necessarily myself, want to put forward. With my role at Meijer, I cannot.
 recommend policy changes, but the committee overall, from what I heard, had strong concerns about that. So although there was a unanimous recommendation that was brought forward around the 31 days, there wasn't necessarily consensus on the extension of the time period for each. There was more conversation, but folks were really concerned about the time period not being able to be flexible in a quick enough time manner and waiting until the fall that a fix needed to happen sooner for both
 in order for it to be effective and not be another kind of displacement factor for renters.
 And then if the city council should choose to extend the relocation assistance or the housing state of emergency, I would strongly recommend that a group be put back together to review those policy issues that were flagged.
 Sooner than later, waiting until the fall will mean continued time frame of ambiguity and a lack of useful and meaningful utilization of a policy that was put in place in order to actually be effective with these many policy challenges that folks are having. Folks are either not implementing their rights or possibly fumbling and having other legal issues on both sides, making it even further contentious.
 And so I think that it should be taken up sooner versus later. And to really have some advanced discussions about some of those issues, there are some of the, in my opinion, some of the policy issues that were flagged could be discussed in a faster timeline than what would be implemented by the fall. So I do agree, setting up an escrow, working out some of the tax components,
 could take a lot longer, but there are some other policy issues that I strongly agree, and I think some of the other committee members would agree, could be worked out just in the not-as-fast timeline, and if it wasn't focused on only technical issues. So thank you again. I appreciate having been part of the process and being able to represent the PHAC.
 Thank you. Can I just make one comment? Since we have had testimony that CAT is – first of all, we have two directors, two distinguished directors from CAT, past and present here. And since we have testimony that you're getting calls about retaliation, I've asked the city attorney's office just to check on a legal issue, and that is whether the existing protections under landlord-tenant law apply to people under this – under our ordinance.
 That is, whether the existing state law protections against retaliation can be claimed by someone under this ordinance or not. So we hope to have an answer for that because that seems to me to be an important question. I'm not a lawyer, but I like to provide my opinion often.
 But you play one on TV. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And when a microphone is in front of me. So technically, yes, but the practicality of the use of that policy is difficult, and especially when someone is in a place where they have to move in a quick time frame, given the market that we have. So I think there's a question of...
 what technically does the law say, and then what in practice can folks actually do? And to your question earlier, so the committee actually didn't come up with solutions or strategies around the retaliation. That might be Kat and Kat's group that has strategies and solutions, but this committee didn't take it up. Many of the policy issues had challenges on both sides, so like the tax piece, both landlords and tenants.
 There's folks who have undocumented immigration status. Other folks who are immigrants and refugees
 There are concerns and challenges about providing tax information. So some of these are just really thick that really need to be dealt with. Are there workarounds or are there ways that we could provide support so that there could be both compliance and utilization on both sides? So I do think that folks do want to comply. It's just a matter of understanding and feeling that it's fair and usable. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next panel, Margo Black from PTU and Jane Leo. Come on up. Good afternoon, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Margo Black, a member of the committee, and also I believe I'm supposed to tell you I'm part of a lobbying entity, Portland Tenants United. Thank you.
 I am going to, I wrote some stuff, but a lot of it was already echoed by other members of the committee, so I'm going to try to just say what is needed. I do want to join with you and other members of the committee in thanking Matthew Schubbold and Victoria James and other folks at PHB for assembling a thoughtful and representative stakeholder committee and for clear and patient leadership and facilitation of our work.
 of our meetings, I think that they did a really good job keeping us focused and on track and identifying, discussing various issues rather than arguing about the overall merits of the ordinance itself.
 I agree with what others have said that certainly there are strong opinions on both sides, but I do feel like for the most part the conversations both over email and in person were fruitful and productive. And I really thank PHB's leadership for facilitating that.
 That being said, I do want to also echo what Katrina, I believe Lisa said, that I don't believe that there was consensus on the policy issue on some of the things that the proposed changes. And I'm a little worried about amending these and potentially creating more confusion and unintended consequences. Okay.
 when perhaps it warrants more discussion. You know, we had a lot of different issues that we talked about in the three meetings. And for full transparency, I wasn't able to be at the third meeting, but I did participate in a fruitful email chain afterwards where it seemed like there was some consensus that some of these issues merited further discussion. So...
 The two amendments that I'm concerned about that I felt weren't fully consensus-ed
 is extending the timelines for both landlords and tenants of 31 days for the rent increase over 10%. And also clarifying that landlords with only one unit who use a property manager are still exempt from paying relocation. I think most of the concerns about the 31-31 days have already been raised. I think there was broad agreement and uncontroversial agreement that tenants need
 more time than the 14 days they're currently given, especially when we consider the combination of both the intent of the relocation ordinance and the intent of the 90-day notice on rent increases that was instituted by this council in the fall of 15. Both of these acknowledge and address that tenant, that forced displacement is,
 or potential forced displacement, tenants need both the time in order to either adjust their budget or find new housing, and they also need the resources to do so. And that 14 days notice...
 definitely has equity and access issues. You know, tenants often don't know yet if they're going to be able to afford the new rent increase. They don't know yet if they're going to be able to find housing. Many tenants just simply don't know about the ordinance. You know, PGU is working with an elderly fixed-income vet who got a $300 rent increase and didn't find out about the ordinance until toward the end of his 90-day notice, and he's out of luck.
 So I think that we really need to err on the side of flexibility for tenants to give them as much time to assess their options, learn about this ordinance, communicate with their landlord as possible. But I think that then once that has happened, then delaying the time for them to be paid the check...
 the relocation expenses by 31 days could have unintended consequences of them, you know, submitting their notice to move before actually having anywhere to go because they don't have the financial resources to even begin their housing search until after that relocation check has come in. And I think we need to really recognize the, you know, and I know that that was the, this is the intent of the council when they passed the ordinance
 that moving is expensive. Those costs are absolutely real. This is not like a lottery award. This is mitigating the very real financial costs of moving, which start with application fees at $50 each. Many tenants have to, especially if they're in a two-adult household, have to pay $100 for...
 over and over and over sometimes. And then the minute you actually manage to secure housing, you have to put down a security deposit. And both, you know, the search for the housing requires often time off work and additional child care expenses. And I say all this just to say that
 If that can't even start until 62 days through the notice period, which only then leaves the tenant 28 days at their current rent, we really potentially run into some issues of tenants not being able to actually find and secure housing before they have to pay that higher rent and rent.
 So I would like to recommend that we extend the timeline for tenants by either 31 days or as much as we're comfortable doing and refer the payment of relocation back to the committee for further discussion. It seems like the main reason that we needed that additional time on the landlord side was the bookkeeping check authorization issue.
 I would suggest that as soon as a 10% rent increase is even decided on by these larger corporate multinational landlords for whom they can't issue the check in under 31 days, they should know that that check may need to be issued and they can begin those preparations at that point in time.
 I don't think that they need that full 62 days, essentially, from the time they issue the notice, which is also some period of time after they've decided to issue that notice. So I would suggest that we revisit the conversation on the landlord length with a little bit more clarity about the impact on the tenants. The other amendment that I want to just...
 is the property manager loophole. I want to absolutely honor the fact that the intention of the council to exempt small landlords should... to the extent that...
 There's sort of an error on the tenant's side with a small landlord using a property manager and then not being exempt from paying relocation. I do understand that it was the intent of the council to exempt that landlord, even if they use a property management company. On the other hand, there are some errors in the landlord's side that...
 allow them to not pay relocation when perhaps they were intended to. One such loophole that has been brought to my attention multiple times is putting multiple properties into separate LLCs.
 And I do want to acknowledge there's some disagreement about whether or not that is actually a loophole or not, but I have seen landlord industry groups and property management companies publicly on their websites advertise that as a way to not have to pay relocation.
 And the one landlord exemption already is a huge burden to tenants, a huge equity and access issue because it requires that tenants know about Portland maps, know how to use Portland maps and the county databases and the Secretary of State website in order to actually figure out who their landlord is and how many properties they have financial interest in.
 it's a puzzle for me as a very, you know, um, technologically literate person, well aware of these databases, um, to really track down whether or not their landlords actually have one unit or not. Um, and to, you know, to further, um, to further complicate that by then saying, um, that, you know, that the, the landlord is exempt if they're using a property management company, um,
 and then requiring the tenant to go, you know, really make sure that their landlord really only owns one unit. It just...
 It just, you know, already for tenants who shouldn't be exempt from this ordinance at all just because they rent from a small landlord it doesn't make moving any less expensive for them. It does introduce additional burdens. So I would say that we shouldn't close that loophole on the one side without addressing loopholes on the other side. And I would personally like to see that referred back to the committee until we can kind of
 look at ways that that one landlord exemption is kind of impacting both sides and come up with a strong fix for both parties. Thank you for that. I want to ask Denise and Lisa perhaps, isn't it difficult to set up an LLC, a limited liability company? I mean, I can't imagine a... If you only had one unit, why would you want to create an LLC? Yeah.
 Commissioner, I'd be happy to have a conversation with you about that. I mean, it depends what you mean by difficult. I mean, it is fairly cheap to set up an LLC, and it is fairly quick. I mean, there are some hoops that one has to go through, but they're not overly onerous. And what would be the advantage to the landlord of doing that?
 And again, I'd be happy to research that issue. I could see, essentially, if an individual set up several LLCs to manage properties, then each LLC is the landlord. No, no, I'm not talking about the person who really does only have one property, one unit. So I think we're agreeing. Certainly we should not accept people who've got multiple properties.
 Just because they call it something else. But they are technically right now exempt. Not under the amendments I introduced. So I thought the purpose of this committee was to make sure that we were clear on that. Lisa Gramp's got something to say. Can you hear what you have to do on the record? Come on up and introduce yourself. Because otherwise the captioners can't hear and you're not on the record. Good.
 Sorry, for the record, Lisa Graham. So the reason somebody would do that would be to limit their liability for that particular property to just that LLC. It's actually fairly common to set up your properties in that way. Okay.
 Well, if you have a multifamily property, it's not common to set up 200 LLCs for 200 units in the building. No, no, no, no. No, I'm talking about like specific addresses, right? You would have 7 Cedar Street LLC, 15 another street LLC. So I guess the question, because I appreciate, Margo, you flagging this, and I think I understand the point you're making about a potential loophole. Is it your view that –
 that this amendment, because it brings in property managers, in effect has the perverse effect of encouraging someone to exercise this loophole? No, I'm saying that where we recognize that the intent of the ordinance is to exempt owners of one unit, even if they use a property management company, and who are right now, by definition, not exempt if they use a property management company. And we want to fix that in order to honor the intention of the ordinance. Right. Okay.
 From a fairness standpoint, I think that we should, you know, like I said, that's kind of an error in the tenant's favor. Right now, if a tenant is renting from a property management company, you know, and that property management company manages more than one unit, by definition, they would be owed relocation. I believe it's probably the intention of the council to exempt tenants.
 exempt the owner of that unit from paying relocation if they only own that one unit, even if they're going through a property management company. I would say... So basically we're trying to tighten down that exemption to make sure that...
 that owners who aren't meant to pay RELO don't pay RELO, of course the effect being that that is even now just a bigger class of tenants who don't get it. But we're not addressing on the flip side of owners who are intended to pay RELO not paying RELO. And so just from a fairness perspective, rather than tighten it down,
 for the landlords, we should do that at the same time as tightening it to make sure that the tenants who are supposed to get it are getting it. Like, basically, don't exempt the property managers until we also fix the language around the LLCs and potentially other, you know, we had another situation where, and I think it was in the flag testimony, one of the flagged issues,
 We have an owner who has two or three units, I think, and two of them became naturally vacant. The tenants just put in their own notice. So now they're only renting out one unit, and they gave a no-cause eviction. And they didn't have to pay relocation because even though they own three units, the ordinance doesn't say own. It says rents out. And so they're only renting out the one unit. So they gave a no-cause eviction.
 And actually were rather smug in the fact that they could. And so part of my wanting to make sure that we kind of fix it equitably on both sides is important to me. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. How are you today? I'm here. We appreciate it. For the record, I'm Jane Leo with the Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors here in Portland. Hello.
 And in testimony, there are many things that I could respond to, but I specifically want to say that while we still don't support the underlying ordinance and have significant concern about the policy considerations that some were named, some were addressed, some are left for you all to make decisions on, I do appreciate the opportunity to attempt to bring some clarification to the ordinance.
 some points i do want to make is i do appreciate on behalf of the association this council the recommendation coming before you and support the amendment that recognizes the owner of a single property that happens to contract with a property management company if you recall back to your february 2nd hearing i believe the woman's name was mrs fink she testified she owns one unit in north portland if for whatever reason
 She should decide to use a property management company. She should still be allowed that one-owner exemption. So I support the amendment that's before you. Jane, can I ask you a question? So, you know, I originally supported the one-unit exemption because I was focused more on accessory dwelling units and the fact that the council has gone to great lengths to create incentives for people to have ADUs and to have as much flexibility as possible.
 But the question has been posed, could you use legal artifice to game the system by having multiple properties, treat them all as separate LLCs, and therefore claim the exemption on each one even though you're actually technically a landlord owning multiple units?
 What's your view of that? And have you observed anyone that is part of your association either advising people to do that or taking that action? The question has been raised by members of the association, many of whom own rental property as part of their retirement plan.
 The question has been raised, and I'll be very honest with you, Commissioner Fish. I have heard legal opinion on both sides as to whether or not, even if you –
 separate LLCs, would the court recognize that as separate legal entities, therefore falling under the one-owner exemption, or would the court say, no, the lines all trace themselves back to one person? And I've heard legal argument on both sides of that. It sounds to me, given that God put lawyers on the earth to test the limits of these things, right, and someone is going to try to come up with a creative theory.
 Couldn't we – I say that as a recovering lawyer. Divine by divine right. Harder, not so divine. But I would say couldn't we actually address this through a code change so that – to discourage people from thinking that they could just –
 spawn a bunch of LLCs in order to create the fiction that they are just owners of one unit. I mean, I think we could – my guess is that our legal team, which I'll put up against any other legal team, I think we have the best law firm in the city, I'm thinking we could come up with some language which might discourage some of our friends to put multiple properties into separate LLCs by just deeming that to be –
 By declaring that under those circumstances, you're not eligible for this exemption. So go ahead and spend the legal fees, but we're not going to treat that. And if you do, we're going to ding you. Commissioner Fritz. Now that I hear you talking about that, though, it goes back to the U.S. Supreme Court Citizens United decision, corporations being people and money being speech, et cetera. So I think it might be quite difficult to define that.
 on the other hand, it might be possible to get to, yes, landlord maybe is the LLC, but who's the person? And I'll chime in as well. I mean, everything we're doing here is by code. And there are innumerable iterations that we could go through, and we could spend years discussing the legal theory behind every iteration that unfolds under every layer of this onion.
 So just remember, as a council, we always have the ability to come back and right-size or change or refine in any way we want based on what we actually see happening in the community. But in terms of going through the exercise of what might happen hypothetically, I can think of lots of different policy issues that aren't even being addressed yet that weren't even on that list. But that's for another day.
 No, I agree with that, Mayor, and that's also why lawyers were smart enough to charge by the hour. Contemplating, we could spend years debating these things. But I do think the question, if someone's intent –
 is to expand beyond the one-unit exemption by creating essentially the legal fiction that there are multiple properties or in separate LLCs. I'm quite confident we could come up at some point with a code fix that makes it clear in the definition section that that is still treated as a –
 that that person is not eligible for the exemption. I'm quite confident our CRAC team could do that. And after we've had public testimony, we get to discuss this again. I would like Lisa Graham to come up and give us a suggestion on that, because in the code it ought to be possible to say we're talking about human beings. Sorry, you got interrupted, James. Please continue. Thank you.
 I do ask that this council take into consideration that there is a tremendous amount of difference between a multi-family high-rise unit that is rentals and those individuals that do own single-family properties. There's a tremendous amount of difference in how they're managed and operated, and that that be kept in consideration as you go forward in talking about this and making your decisions.
 We do support the amendment that's come before you that the relocation fee is by unit and not by occupants. And to clarify a point that's come up regarding the 60 days,
 Under federally guaranteed mortgages, which would include ones that you yourselves may have taken part of at one time in life and may have one right now, if your mortgage is a federally guaranteed mortgage that's come to you through FHA, the VA, USDA, or even some conventional loans, if that rental unit is put on the market and right now –
 I can attest that when I looked at the last numbers, as of February 2nd, to date of yesterday, 274 tenant-occupied single-family units were put on the market. We could debate all day long whether or not that's reaction to this council's actions or what's happening in Salem or perhaps both, but we're not here to do that.
 But to clarify, if that unit's put up for sale and it's currently a rental and it becomes owner-occupied in a market that we have right now, which is in high-demand market, and that unit is going to become an owner-occupied on the federal mortgage, occupancy is required within 60 days for that new homebuyer.
 often that first-time homebuyer, 60 days is required for them to take occupancy in order to be eligible for that mortgage. So to the question that was raised, I hope that that clarifies it a bit. I don't. So I'm still not seeing why that's a problem then. I'm sorry? I'm still not seeing why the 60 days is a problem. Well, it's kind of down to if you have the owner of the property gives notice
 And it's a 90-day notice. But the house sells in five days. Yes. You now have your lending process, which is governed as a federal system under the Consumer Federation Protection Bureau, the CFPB. We have – then you start – your clock starts ticking. Now I've got to – thank you. Okay.
 And we don't have a proposal to fix that yet. That's one of the policy things we're going to put on the list for continuing the conversation. Right, it's part of the continuing conversation. And my final point that I want to raise is on the 31 days, like most things in life, consensus is reached through compromise. Yes.
 And in a good compromise, everybody loses a little bit. And I believe that that was, when we came to the 31 days, that was recognized that it was a, everyone came to the consensus vote, but recognizing that it may have not been ideal in their individual world. But as a group, it was a consensus vote for the 31 days. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Appreciate you both being here. Come on. Thank you.
 Hi, Lisa Graham again. Can I just answer whatever questions you have right now? I've got to go to another matter. So what's your suggestion for defining person or human being in the code? Well, without getting into kind of real-time drafting, I think we could figure out sort of majority interest in a property and craft some language in that way in order to avoid the LLC problem. And does the language that we've got in this proposal conflict with that? No.
 No, it doesn't conflict with it. I think we'd have to augment it to address that issue. Because we're using, what we do is we, in our code, we are referring to the defined term landlord that is in the state statute. And so the state statute encompasses all these categories that raised this issue that was the property management issue that was raised as a result of the amendment. Okay.
 Because remember that exemption was added as an amendment, so that wasn't anticipated in the original draft. So the amended language is what caused the property management issue to get dilated. And from today, how long would it take you to figure out what that would look like?
 It would depend on what we wanted, I suppose. I mean, it wouldn't take me very long, but it depends on – Can I make a suggestion? Yeah. So I'm guessing that the state law defines a landlord as a person, a corporation, a partnership. I mean, the usual legal definition. So it covers different statuses. I think the question that we're looking for some guidance on is –
 is regardless of how you define landlord for purposes of our exemption, coming up with either an additional definition or exclusion that says that if you own multiple properties that are in different legal ownerships, that will be considered to be beyond the one unit exemption. Yes. I think it would be something to the extent that, you know, a landlord has a majority interest in more than one property. Yes.
 Regardless of the legal status. Exactly. Because people are going to hold property in a trust. They're going to hold it in a corporation. They're going to hold it in a partnership.
 So that's not our concern. It's just that we don't want to encourage someone to use those forms in order to disguise the fact they own more than one property and thus claim the exemption on each of those individual properties. Right. And I wouldn't even have the majority interest, any interest in more than one property, I think. That's why I was saying it would depend on what the policy direction is, how you wanted to craft it. Could you get that done within a week? Yeah. Thank you. Yes.
 Is that it? Do we have other people testifying there other than the panel? Let's find out. Susan, has anybody signed up for public testimony today? We have two testifiers. Very good. Why don't we hear from them? Nancy Newell and Megan Dorton, please come up. Three minutes each. If you could please state your name for the record. Thank you. Are both the green lights on the mics there? Yeah. Perfect. Great. Okay. So my name is Nancy Newell. I've been a resident here for over 25 years on my own house.
 And I brought to the council's attention in the past major corporations that have impacts all over the world, and our council can draw attention to the dangers, and instead our council's history is very poor in Portland. They brought in Enron when I brought out the point that they were criminals in India on a natural gas explosion, which was ignored. In this housing crisis, who are the players? How detailed a research is.
 You, as representatives of the people, I don't care what the laws have been made or all the confusion. Why am I able to investigate and get the accurate information? And Ken Lay, the chair, ends up dead under circumstances that are really questionable. What are we accomplishing up here, ignoring these multinational corporations and the effect on the city? And I'm going to tell you about water, Mayor Wheeler, because all across the U.S.,
 Food and water watches winning cases on privatizing water. And you as state treasurer, that's a part of people's costs, everyday living. If they can't pay for their water, their kids are going to get sick, seniors are going to die, and same thing with electricity. They killed people in California when Enron cut the electricity illegally. And Portland was the headquarters. Bonneville is the headquarters of a nuclear plant that should have been...
 closed decades ago. And we have a terrible fight in the costs. And we can't go to all the alternatives you want to go to because of the costs. So it continues to be a pattern. And why can't we do better in Portland? Why can't we do better? California is now from San Diego to our border and all the way over to the border of Wyoming. Instead of taking care of our electric costs for people that have to have a life,
 We've got Warren Buffett who wants to build a transmission line to make money off of his coal operations in Wyoming and fronted with phony green projects. California, from San Diego to Oregon, has lowered rates, has gotten these dirty fuels out of their electricity practically overnight. Just check out the story. Turn the utility reform network. Why aren't we doing this?
 Why aren't we doing this in this city? This is supposed to be a city that's progressive. You have not earned that label, and it can be done. And I truly believe if you took the advisement and started getting on it seriously, because the housing without water and electric and considering those costs...
 Those are things that you have an impact on, and you can have an impact on pulling their licenses, and I've requested it on Warren Buffett because his real estate sign is all over Portland, up to Mount Hood. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for hearing testimony. My name is Megan Dorton. I'm a staff attorney at Legal Aid Services of Oregon. We provide free legal, civil legal services to low-income residents of Portland. Okay.
 in areas of law, including housing, family law, public benefits. So I'm here today to say thank you to PHB for the leadership in the work group in which my colleague Christina Dirks participated.
 We support the work of the work group and we think that the results are fair and reasonable in addressing landlord concerns while reinforcing the protective intent of the ordinance. And to that end, we'd like to report...
 that in our office, as case handlers, we have experienced, at least anecdotally, a dramatic decrease in the use of no-cause notices in Portland. The few no-cause notices that we do deal with in Portland are generally exempt landlords.
 That's still very burdensome for our clients, but we have seen a market decrease, and no causes just simply have...
 the ordinance has changed the legal landscape for low-income tenants. It's changed our intake in terms of our hotline, in terms of our fair housing intake that we do. It has neutralized the most powerful
 weapons of retaliation and discrimination in our experience so far. So we're looking at numbers but this has been the anecdotal experience of our case handlers. I was also asked to address the public benefits impact of the ordinance on our low income clients and
 that's an area of the law that we are that factors into basically every case that we practice and our analysis is that the impact of the ordinance and payments is very minimal on our clients in terms of the most used benefits it has little or no impact such as
 For most folks receiving medical benefits and food stamps, there's been no impact. And on other benefits, the public benefits, just the ordinance makes...
 makes moving a possibility for our clients and has such a positive impact on our clients that it greatly outweighs any negative impact. So in terms of public benefits, we don't see a problem. Thank you. Appreciate your time. Thank you for your work. Thank you.
 All right, colleagues, further thoughts, questions, comments? Well, it seems to me it's really urgent to get the things passed so that at least the longer length of time for tenants, which everybody agreed on. So although I am very interested in looking at coming back even next week with tenants,
 additional language on defining what a person is in relation to this item, I think it would be better to pass it and then do another one rather than hold it up.
 Mayor, I would like to see us move forward on this. I was very encouraged to hear that consensus was reached on these technical changes, and I'd also appreciate that we've been given a menu of policy questions that we can take up and we can, in due course, decide which of those have some kind of urgency. And I do think...
 Matthew makes a good point with the clock running. If any of those policy issues are things we want to be able to discuss and debate at the same time that we're taking up a renewal of the state of emergency and a potentially renewal of this ordinance, I think we should have those cooked for us at that time. So I would urge us to –
 over the next few weeks decide what policy questions we want the Bureau to go deeper on beyond the technical work? So I'm going to raise my primary concern, which was basically reaffirmed by much of the testimony today.
 If we extend the notice period to 31 days for the tenant and the time frame for the landlord to 31 days and the tenant doesn't receive relocation assistance until 28 days before their move-out date...
 And we say that if they overstay their notice period, they have to refund the full amount of the relocation. We are setting them up for failure and potential homelessness. So although I do appreciate the hard work of Housing Bureau staff and members of the committee, there's no way that I can support the amendment as is. I have an amendment...
 That was obviously written before this session, and I am open to some friendly amendments to it. So I'll read the amendment, and then I'll make my suggestion. Chloe, can I ask you a question? We have before us the annotated – we have the ordinance with the annotated sections with the changes. Where is the 31 days reflected in that document? Section C, I believe. Section C.
 Yeah, that's correct. Yeah, C. I see. Okay. Was there a reason for 31 rather than 30 days? Sorry to be asking questions after we said no. So we presented a few different options, and one was there was a 14-14, 14-30, 30-14, 30-30, and then the group could not reach consensus, and then...
 And candidly, the Bureau staff said, okay, we're going to take this off the table, and we're going to move this to the policy questions. And the group asked for one more attempt, and they reached 31-31. And from the perspective of some of the property manager representatives, 31 captured the longest month for them, and they do their payment there. They do any payments on a monthly basis.
 Commissioner, can I ask you a question before we get to the text? If this particular issue was removed from the matter before us, are you in accord with the rest of the proposed changes? No, I also have an issue with some language in Section D that I would like to see removed and simply send it back to the committee for further consideration and clarification, because I strongly believe, I mean, number one,
 We're in a housing emergency. We passed an emergency ordinance to deal with the most egregious part of the emergency in the only way we really had left, with the only tool we really had left. The two items that I'm taking issue with don't really constitute an emergency, and they are policy issues and...
 I think both of them could have unintended consequences, as I mentioned earlier. But, Matthew, that second issue indeed, the committee did have consensus on that?
 Yeah, this is one that the Housing Bureau had flagged as a technical issue, so it brought forward a recommendation with the Mayor's Office. And on this one, we flagged this as a technical issue because in Section B and Section –
 And the obligation of renters to receive the relocation assistance is that they are providing notice that they're going to be moving out rather than accept the rent increase. They economically cannot accept the rent increase, so they're choosing to move out. And so the Bureau had categorized this as a technical fix because –
 The discussion was that in Part D you talk about what the consequence is for a landlord if they don't meet their obligations. And there was a request that that same language for tenants be added to the code. And in consultation with the attorney's office, I won't speak for the attorney's office and offer legal advice, but they thought it somewhat redundant with C that –
 This is already an obligation that a renter has, is if they take the relocation assistance and provide notice that they're moving out on a certain date, they are obligated to move out on that date. And so that is why the Housing Bureau had categorized it as a technical issue. But this idea is about if they then change their mind and decide to stay. Okay.
 Well, if they change their mind, they can't unilaterally make that decision. Once they have provided notice to the landlord, they would have to have the landlord agree to allow them to stay for whatever period of time they agree to on mutual consent. And that puts us into policy territory, I would argue. Okay. I'm trying to understand how the committee, was there debate about this in the committee? No.
 There was not certain technical members were in agreement with this and certain technical members were not. And for the technical issues, the Bureau made a final recommendation per the amendment. It was only on the policy question around the extension of the 14 days that we specifically and explicitly said we would want the entire body to agree.
 Okay, and Commissioner Udeli, what's the concern on D, that if they don't move out, they have to give the relocation assistance back? Well, you're coming up with a scenario where someone simply changes their mind, stays in their unit, and thinks they can keep their reload money, which I sincerely doubt.
 doubt that that will happen and the recourse the landlord has is the same recourse as the tenant would have if the landlord refused to pay it which is to go to court. I'm imagining a scenario especially now that we've set up the tenants to have only 28 days to receive their relocation funds and secure a new dwelling where the tenant is
 hasn't had an adequate amount of time to secure a new home, the tenant experiences a health crisis or a family member has a health crisis, a situation where maybe they forget to move their last load of boxes and the landlord can come back and claim, you were here an extra day, and they can because it's that vague. You were here an extra day. You have to refund the reload. So I think...
 you know, there's two issues. Coupled with the time frame, it's highly problematic. And the issue of how vague it is, I think, sets people up who may experience some extraordinary circumstance or accidental oversight to owe their full amount of relocation. When in fact, they have been involuntarily displaced and something arises in their life, you know, maybe it
 I just, I'm very uncomfortable with it. Mayor, can I jump in for a second? Fish or fish? I'm, you know, mindful that we've set up a process and we have recommendations, and I would normally give great deference to the work of a committee on something like this, shepherded by the Housing Bureau. But I just want to make sure we're clear about our options today.
 and put aside the fact that this is an emergency ordinance. If we don't have consensus as a council, we can take the emergency clause off, and I presume this will go to a second reading, and we do that. But I just want to make sure I understand, and Matthew, correct me if I'm wrong. We can vote to accept these changes today. We can amend this and seek to change them.
 We can ask for more time to study any particular clause that we don't understand, or we could ask that it go back to the committee and ask you to reconvene the committee to make some recommendation. Are those the four options before us? I suppose you could just ignore it and do nothing as well. Okay, thank you. So if it's a policy question, is it appropriate to go back to this committee, or is it something that we should grapple with?
 at this point? The committee has discharged something to us. What might happen if this goes back to the committee? It's hard to say. I don't, it would be if the request from council is specifically to take this provision in section D, subsection D, and reach a committee consensus, I don't
 I'm not saying that's not possible. It definitely will be a challenge. And it would probably be a much more nuanced and complicated kind of structure of code.
 You know, this is a, the exercise was a delicate exercise because there are people who support the policy in general and people who don't. And the Bureau would certainly work with the group to reach a consensus. And if not, then the Bureau would consult with the Mayor as Housing Commissioner on what a recommendation would be in the absence of consensus. So there's another option, I'll just throw it, Mayor, I'm just pitching and you can
 Tell me to shut up when you want. If Commissioner Udailey feels very strongly about two items, then as a practical matter, this is not going to pass as an emergency. Well, to be clear, I have an amendment to offer that I haven't been allowed to read yet. Okay. So shall I do that? Please. Yes.
 Under Section C, remove code changes that change the timeframes from 14 days to 31, and under Section D, remove added language that says, if a tenant, after receiving relocation assistance from the landlord, does not move out of the dwelling unit in accordance with a tenant notice, the tenant shall repay the relocation assistance to the landlord within a reasonable timeframe.
 Both of the removed items will be sent back to the Technical Advisory Committee for further consideration with Council concerns in mind and return within three months or less, totally open to that discussion, with suggestions that address those concerns. And here is the rationale.
 Let me just second it for the sake of putting it on the table. Thank you. So Commissioner Udaly moves Commissioner Fritz seconds. Can I offer a friendly amendment? Well, she has, no, I interrupted her, but I just wanted to make sure we had it on the table. Commissioner Udaly is going to give her a rationale. I'll support it with a friendly amendment. Could I hear the rationale first, please? Commissioner Udaly first, then Commissioner Fish can offer an amendment. Okay.
 First, both of these sections of suggested changes are policy in nature or verge on it and fall outside the scope of the Technical Advisory Committee. With that in mind, I think it's imperative that the Council use a critical eye to the ultimate impacts of those changes, which I'm arguing are unknown and potentially unintended and very damaging to some individuals.
 ultimate impacts those changes would make to the intent of the ordinance. The original intent of the ordinance was to create an opportunity for tenants to avoid homelessness and other potential harms that an unexpected displacement causes, as such prescribing that the tenants receive that relocation money in a time frame that allows them the flexibility to find another home is paramount. While we agree that tenants could use longer than 14 days by which to decide if they can absorb a rent increase,
 Giving the landlords additional time as suggested creates a situation where a tenant might not receive relocation until they are 62 days into a 90-day notice period. With a no-cause eviction notice, a tenant receives the money in 45 days, exactly in the middle of the 90-day notice period. That seems fair for both parties and we feel that should be our goal with a rent increase notice as well.
 Additionally, adding a damages clause against tenants that is not clear creates more opportunities for conflict and disagreement between parties. If the goal of this clause is to address the lack of a clear 30-day notice requirement on the part of the tenants, then it seems to me that concise language about tenant move-out expectations be written into Section C. However, if the goal is to create some accountability in the chance a tenant accepts RELO and then refuses to move, again, highly improbable.
 The language should be more clear so that there is less room for personal interpretation of expectations that could land both parties in court and potentially put a tenant in further unexpected debt with a judgment on their record. I am asking that the Technical Advisory Committee take these concerns in mind and craft policy suggestions on these two issues.
 that alleviate the potential for additional unintended consequences. My specific direction to the committee is to, A, decide what is the fairest time frame for a tenant to receive a relocation check, and, B, craft language that gives tenants and landlords clear directions about when a tenant is expected to move once a relocation check is requested and or accepted. And as far as friendly amendments, like I said,
 We could ask the committee to come back in one month rather than three months if there's a sense of urgency around this. I want to recognize the concerns expressed by some of the people that gave testimony today that increasing the tenant notification rate,
 from 14 days is important. So I would accept a friendly amendment to separate those two notice periods, accept the increase on the tenant side, and send the increase on the landlord side back to the committee for reconsideration. Commissioner Fischer.
 Thank you, and thank you, Commissioner Daly, for your amendments. And I will support your amendment if this returns to council within 30 days with or without a recommendation of the committee. That's acceptable to me. How do I accept a friendly amendment? I don't know if I've – Thumbs up?
 Jazz hands. And my logic on this, quite frankly, is I appreciate the amendments and your passion on this issue. And I think if you have a concern, I would like to better understand your concern. And frankly, I don't feel like right now I have enough information one way or another. We have set up a process at the committee, which we have a contingency.
 a group of stakeholders that we've asked to help us on this. And the practical effect, if we don't accept your amendment, is the emergency clause would be lifted and this wouldn't be effective for 30 days anyway. So I would err on the side of giving the committee a chance to revisit this and then come back with a recommendation within 30 days. Commissioner Fritz. I'd like to hear the Housing Commissioner's opinion, please. I was afraid you were going to ask me that. Okay.
 As the author of the process that was created at the recommendation of the city council, my initial reaction while I'm hearing Commissioner Udaly's concern, and I think she's done a good job of laying out the logic.
 behind that concern. For us to send half of the proposal back to the stakeholders who already did their work, who already had this discussion, who already had, from what I understand, some pretty difficult civil conversations and disagreements, if we move forward on the tenant piece,
 And put the landlord piece back, I think it's going to be seen as an unbalanced decision on the part of the city council, and those on the committee who represent the landlords will probably feel that their input has been disrespected. That is honestly my concern.
 Thank you. And I didn't know you were going to say that, but that actually reflects my concern too. And so I'm not willing on an emergency basis to vote for the amendments. I do feel that we should get the tenant, the increased length of time for the tenants as soon as possible. That's one thing that almost everybody was agreed on. But I think picking and choosing between what to do and especially putting it out even 30 days, it's end of May already. October will be here before we know it.
 I think this is a pilot policy. It's not going to be perfect, and we should try the next iteration of it. Could I suggest another – and I may be completely outgunned here on the amendment. If that's the case, obviously I'm fine with it. As I mentioned earlier, this is all code.
 And even if we move forward today, there's still the opportunity for the conversation with whoever we want to have the conversation with to refine or change anything that is in the code.
 I was not there for those meetings, so I can't – I'm just hearing what Matthew is telling us in terms of – he's politely saying they've done their homework, they've had their debate, and they're probably not going to go much further with it. So maybe it's a different process separate from this. I don't know. Do we want to consider using the Portland Housing Advisory Committee in any capacity on this?
 I think that's an option. I actually just wanted to comment on the amendment to Commissioner Fish's question, though. Looking at the code changes, so looking at Exhibit A, I am confident that the changes in subsection C with the extension to 31 days
 I'm confident that that body will not reach consensus on anything but an equal extension of days. So while I'm not, because your question was about the Section D, about repayment of the relocation assistance, we didn't spend as much time on that, and the Housing Bureau made the final recommendation in consultation with the Mayor's Office. And so that, there could be a deeper conversation. But with respect to C and the extension of days, I am confident,
 nearly 100% confident that if we took that back, there would not be a unanimous decision that didn't have an equal extension of days. And so at the end of the day, that policy question would still rest on the Bureau, the Housing Commissioner, and City Council. That's one of the reasons why I suggested that it come back to Council with or without a recommendation of the committee, because at least we'd have the benefit of a recommendation from the House Bureau.
 So again, what I heard from everybody was we needed more time for the tenants to make their decision. I do want, so if we pass this today, that happens. If we could pass it and come back next week, which I heard from Lisa Grant, that we could come back with a tighter definition of what a person is in relation to this code, which I would suggest we do.
 Here's the problem. We can't pass it today over Commissioner Udaly's objection. The only thing we can do today is lift the emergency clause. So if a majority of the council wants to pass this, the only action left is to remove the emergency clause and have this carried to a second reading there.
 And then the tenant extension wouldn't go into effect for 35 days, right? That's why I, as my friendly amendment, suggested a recommendation come back in 30 days because under that scenario it's not going to kick in anyway. And whether it's a recommendation of the committee or the housing bureau, I would welcome another bite of the apple.
 And Commissioner Udaly has accepted Commissioner Fish's friendly amendment, is my understanding. So why don't we focus narrowly on that for the time being? So we'll just call that Commissioner Udaly's amendment, so we don't have to vote on the amendment to the amendment. Both CND and doing what with the 14 versus 31? She's the sponsor of that.
 Will you repeat your friendly amendment so I can jot it down here, Commissioner Fritsch? Recognizing that you control the clock here in terms of procedure, because it takes one person to prevent an emergency ordinance from being adopted, and since it would otherwise not be effective for over 30 days, what I have simply suggested is
 That on the items that you have objected to, that we pull those out and within 30 days bring them back to council with or without a recommendation from the Housing Bureau. But that was pulling out the extension of 31 days to the tenants as well as to the landowners. Well, that's a refinement that I would be...
 Commissioner Fritz, I'd like your guidance on that. Well, I'm just trying to understand what it is we're going to be focusing on. My original amendment would just simply remove that language from Section C. I had then suggested that I would happily accept a friendly amendment separating the two, putting the extended...
 time period in place for the tenant so we can revisit the landlord. I just want to point out here that the compelling reason to extend the time period for the tenant is because 14 days is not long enough to make a major life decision as to whether or not, A, you can absorb a rent increase of over 10%, and B, you can find a new rental in the 90 days that you will have.
 the compelling reason that we've heard on the landlord side is we don't want to have to cut an extra check. So when we talk about equity, I think that it is widely acknowledged that fair does not always mean equal. And I don't think it's reasonable to say if we're going to give 31 days to the tenant, we have to give...
 31 days to the landlord because that's equal and that's fair. It's not fair. The landlord has a choice. Their choice is to no-cause evict a tenant or raise the rent over 10%. That's what triggers RELO. If they don't want to do that, then they shouldn't do either of those things. Once they do one of those things and they risk involuntarily displacing a tenant...
 adding to our housing crisis and burdening or triggering that reload, they will know we have 45 days to write this check. Well, if they write checks once every 30 days, then that 30-day time period is going to happen within 45 days, and they can write the check, and if the tenant doesn't want reload, they can rip it up. So I, you know...
 I'm sorry if we can't move forward on this, but the argument is just not compelling. I just cannot accept only giving a tenant 28 days within which to secure housing at the end of their 90-day period. And I want to point out, I'm the only person up here, despite the fact of Commissioner Fish being a renter, who...
 truly understands based on lived experience what this potentially means to a renter. So I am asking you to consider that. I would like to say... Is your amendment referring both questions back to the committee? C and D, yes. Yeah, C and D. But what she's now saying in the amended version is that it wouldn't refer the tenancy
 tenants and landlords being equal length of time back to the committee? I just suggested that as a potential friendly amendment, that if we see a compelling reason to extend the time period for the tenant, which I think there is, that we could leave that in place, but we send the second piece, which is extending the time period for the landlord back to the committee. And I want to point out, in the event of a no-cause eviction,
 the landlord has to write a check at 45 days, so it would provide consistency. It would be hard to argue that that creates an extraordinary burden for the landlord. So I'd like to say a couple of things. First of all, you don't know my history, so you don't know how much experience I've had with these kinds of issues, and I'd be happy to have a chat with you about that sometime. All right. Secondly, that...
 Let's say lived experience. It's my turn. We've got a committee which we've put together. This ordinance asks that committee to keep working on things for us. So we've heard from staff that that was an item, getting to the equal 31 to 31, was something that was the only thing that the committee could come to agreement on. So although I am personally very concerned about your 28 days, of course if it's such a big...
 rent increase that the tenant knows immediately that they're not going to be able to make it in any way shape or form then they're going to say the next right when they handed the notice. Clock starts now. But to expect the committee to go back to work after the council has and to send them back with this thing which isn't what they were suggesting. As I said before I think it's important to get that extra time for the tenants and
 And that's what we could do. So let's go back to what Commissioner Fish is. Could you flesh that out one more time? I hate to be dense. You're not dense, Mayor. I want to hear that again. Let me just say, I've been on the council. Maybe there's a resolution here. Mayor, I've been on the council now for eight or nine years. And we've had more of these kinds of discussions in your first three or four months than I can remember over many years. And I say that as a point of compliment.
 We deliberate in public, and we are all struggling to figure out the answer here, and I appreciate the fact we're doing our deliberations in public. It doesn't mean we're going to get it right from anyone's point of view, but this has been a hallmark, in my opinion, the first few months under this mayor, and I hope it continues because I think it's important. So here's my thinking. This is an emergency ordinance. I learned this from Randy Leonard a long time ago.
 When you have an emergency ordinance and someone objects, it means we can't pass it. So our only option is to take the emergency off, have it have a second reading, and then it's not effective for at least 30 days. So recognizing that because she has a principled objection to this language, that it would otherwise be delayed 30-something days. 37. My recommendation is that we pull out C and D.
 send it to the Housing Bureau, and ask them to come back with a recommendation in 30 days with or without consensus from the committee, and we adopt the rest as in the ordinance. We adopt all the other provisions today in this emergency ordinance. And as a practical matter, the effect of that is no different than –
 voting up or down other amendments, going to a second reading and waiting 37 days because an objector controls the clock. And the only question left for us to debate is whether we make one change in C or keep it as is until we get a recommendation. That's my approach. Does that work with you, Commissioner Daly?
 Yes. That works. Okay. And I would, well, and Mayor, Commissioner Fritz has, I think, a view about C. Dan, if you can get consensus on whether we make one change to C or keep it as is, I think we then have consensus as a council to move forward. I just think that the rest of the changes without C and D are, I'm wondering whether it's worth doing them. I mean, those two are the most important things that the committee sent to us. I don't agree with that at all. All we would have then is B, right?
 Well, we're not always going to agree on everything all the time. And certainly my preference would be to go forward with the recommendations as put forth by the council. But as Commissioner Fish correctly points out, that ain't going to happen today.
 So now we're down to the practical reality. We either remove the emergency clause and wait 37 days, or we do what Commissioner Fish has suggested, which is throw him back in the pool for one more shot and see if we can get closer to a consensus. My personal view, and I'm just going to be honest, is that we're not going to. But as Commissioner Fish points out, it doesn't matter. No, it doesn't.
 It's academic. We're not going to persuade. It's academic. Exactly. Perhaps you could ask Commissioner Saltzman what his view is, and then we can decide whether we have a consensus to move forward. I think he was twitching over here. I think he was ready to do that. Commissioner Saltzman. Yeah, I think that I support giving it back to the Housing Bureau for 30 days, given the situation, and seeing whether the committee can come up with another recommendation on that. But I'll be prepared to vote one way or the other in 30 days on the question. Okay.
 I threw out perhaps if we know the committee is truly deadlocked, maybe we ask the Portland Housing Advisory Commission to weigh in on it. And I don't think there's anything that prevents the Housing Bureau from doing that in the intervening 30 days. So I hope they would do that as well. Commissioner Fritz? I don't support moving forward with the proposed way out. I think it's not helpful, especially on something that's a short-term thing anyway, to send it back to the committee when they've already hashed it out. We heard it was very difficult. Okay.
 I just don't see how that helps. There are several technical amendments in here that are needed to clarify the ordinance that are still intact. If you agreed to these corrections with the language in C&D, which I want to point out I'm not removing all of C&D, it's two specific items, there's no reason...
 I don't see a reason to object to the rest of the amendments. Okay, so the one in B is the one about the one property owner. So we've already discovered we need to change that one. So we can pass it today, but then we need to change it again. And then the end of Section B. There's the rolling notice period. The rolling notice period is in C. So you'd have the rolling notice period, but you wouldn't have either of the numbers in.
 You wouldn't have an increase in the notice periods. That's the only change to see. So you'd have the definition of landlord and the rolling, and what's the end of B? At the end of B is the provision that clarifies that the relocation assistance is per dwelling unit, not per tenant in the dwelling unit. Right, which is what we said in the first place.
 All right, calling. So, oh, go ahead. Go ahead. Lee. Well, I'm just saying, I think we're at the point where we need to make a decision. Yeah, I'm going to call the question right now. We're not going to get five votes on anything. So let's try this. Let's first call, and I'll just lay out what I'm going to do so there's no surprises here. First, I'm going to call the question on what I'll call the Fish-Udailey Amendment. If that goes forward, then I will also ask for a motion to remove the emergency clause because that's required to move the whole thing as amended to second reading.
 Well, Mayor, I don't want to unduly complicate this, but...
 My friendly amendment is to strip out C&D, set them over for one month, and then take up the ordinance as amended on an emergency basis today. Yeah, and that is my understanding. That is now what I will call the Fish-Udailey amendment. Right. Is that your understanding, Commissioner Udailey? Is that square? And if I could just comment. Absolutely, you may. It seems unlikely we're going to agree in 30 days any more than we are now. So then you're out another 30 days after that. That is a possible outcome.
 and one that I've already said I think is highly likely. I think one thing the Bureau and the committee will have the benefit of is the discussion we've had here today. Correct. And the testimony, too. And the two provisions, Mayor, that we're setting over would come back as an emergency ordinance. That is correct.
 Very good. Okay, so now we are voting on the, what I'll call you, Daily Fish Amendment. Please call the roll. I'm sorry? Can I ask a clarifying question? Are we stripping out, is the motion to strip out all of the changes in C and all of the changes in D? Do you want me to read it again? Or...
 Just what I heard from Commissioner Fish was stripping out all changes.
 Of the dwelling unit in accordance with the tenant notice the tenant shall repay the relocation assistance to the landlord within a reasonable time frame Thank you the rest of the language intact. They call the vote fish. Hi. Wait a minute. That's my job Susan please call the Don't let him fool you person. Don't let him do that Fish hi Saltzman, hi Fritz. No you daily. I I
 Wheeler. No. The amendment passes. Please call the... Can I get a motion, please? Well, it's an ordinance. Yeah, but I need a motion to remove the emergency clause. I'll move to remove the emergency clause. Commissioner Saltzman moves. Commissioner Fritz second. Please call the roll on the removal of the emergency clause. Fish. No. Saltzman. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. So the emergency clause...
 is removed. And that's what we need to do. It is a now non-emergency first reading. This moves to second reading. Thank you, everybody.