We are not bringing the council into session just yet. We have a very exciting pre-Gavel celebration today. Obviously, we have the 2017 Rose Festival Court in our presence today and some of the adults who work with them and some of the parents.
 A special thank you to the Rose Court for being here this morning. Commissioner Fish and I had the opportunity to have breakfast with these young ladies, and I can tell you they are an extremely impressive group of young leaders.
 And I also want to thank Jeff Curtis, Brett Baker, and Leslie Goodloe for helping to coordinate their visit this morning. Just briefly on the Rose Festival, it's been part of Portland's popular culture.
 For over a century, it was identified and acknowledged in 2010 as being the official festival of the city. It was a very brilliant move on the part of former community leaders back in the early part of the 1900s to create the Rose Festival to help put Portland on the global map and to brand it the summer capital of the world.
 They have dozens of events, as everybody is aware, throughout the festival, supporting a diverse set of interests and cultural aspects of our community. The Rose Festival makes a positive impact on hundreds of people.
 thousands of lives annually and it brings smiles to the faces of both locals and guests from all around the nation and all around the world. The bottom line is that the Rose Festival makes Portland a better place to live and to visit and the court is certainly the highlight of the entire event. So with that Brett I'll let you
 Do your introduction and we'll let the ladies introduce themselves. Super. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So I'm Brett Baker. I'm the president of the nonprofit Portland Rose Festival Foundation. And while the ladies assemble behind me, I want to take the opportunity to thank the city of Portland.
 The reason the Rose Festival is here is for the citizens of the city and the state. And without the support of the city, there's no way a festival this size could take place. So thank you, Mr. Mayor, City Council. We appreciate it very much. And with that, I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to the Rose Festival Court, who I believe are going to introduce themselves.
 And also, I want to recognize Leslie Goodloe Baldwin, an esteemed employee of the city and chair of the court and past president of the Portland Rose Festival in the centennial year 2007. Thank you.
 We are the 2017 Rose Festival Court presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. We'd like to introduce ourselves and tell you what's happening during this year's Rose Festival. Music
 Anna! My name is Anna and I go to Lincoln High School. I was on the Constitution team and I represented my school at the statewide Poetry Out Loud competition. In my free time, I can be found working on my fiction novels or studying the stars. Come and join the Rhodes Festival for a brilliant solar event that will occur on August 21st. Down at Waterfront Park, come and watch the sky toward dark. Professor E. Clips will be on site to protect your eyes from day to night.
 Ermina. My name's Ermina. I'm from Jefferson High School. I participate in On Track OSHU in hopes to become a pediatrician. I enjoy spending time outdoors breathing in fresh air and exploring new paths on my running adventures. For my fellow runners, come join the Rose Cesar Half Marathon on Sunday, May 28th. Can't run the full 13.1 miles? Sign up for the world's shortest half marathon, the .1 Run.
 This popular race is 528 feet. It starts and finishes at the Side City Fair on Saturday, May 27th. Come join the fun at one of our runs.
 I'm Maggie from Wilson High School. Someday I hope to become a writer for film and television. As for now, I am a young professional at the Oregon Children's Theater. I'm a lover of fashion and photography, and the best place to take a snapshot is at my favorite event, Rose Festival City Fair. Bring your family and friends to City Fair on the waterfront for three weekends of fun. Make crafts in the kids' zone, see animals that walk on the wild side, and hop on your favorite carnival rides. It all starts on May 26th with opening night fireworks.
 I'm Cora from Roosevelt High School. I'm a performer in several ways. I dance, cheer, sing, and play various instruments. One of my greatest highlights as a performer has been cheering with my team down the Grand Floral Parade route. Come see the brilliant performers at the spectacular Spirit Mountain Casino Grand Floral Parade on Saturday, June 10th.
 Watch for the amazing horses, dancing groups, marching bands, and all floral floats, including the mini float, representing communities from around the region. You can see it from the streets, in reserved seating at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum, or live on KPTV Fox Channel 12. Tiffany! I'm Tiffany, and I'm from David Douglas High School, where you can find me serving on student council, mentoring freshmen, or cheering on our sports teams.
 One of my favorite memories is when I danced among the lights at my favorite Rose Festival event, the Starlight Parade. Bring your family to downtown Portland for the PGE Solve Starlight Parade on Saturday, June 3rd at 8.30 p.m. Come see the brilliant displays of illuminated floats, marching bands, dancing groups, and special entries that light up the sky at this nighttime event. Or watch them live on KPTV Fox Channel 12.
 I'm Myra Annie from Park Rose High School. I'm a student athlete who also loves the arts and who dreams of being a veterinarian. During my free time, I enjoy volunteering at retirement homes, reading, hanging out with my pets, and spending time with my family. Bring your family to see the ships line up on the waterfront at Park Seawall during Fleet Week, June 7 through June 11. The Rose Festival is excited to welcome ships back to Portland from the United States Navy, U.S. Coast Guard, and the Royal Canadian Navy.
 While they are here, you can climb aboard for a free ship tour for a complete Fleet Week experience. Mele! I'm Mele from Madison High School where I'm the co-student body president. I love to travel, which inspired my desire to become a professional airline pilot. When I'm not singing, playing sports, or dreaming of flying, my favorite thing to do in Portland is to walk across the bridges.
 If you love the sight of water as much as I do, come see the Dragon Boat Races held on the Willamette River near the Hawthorne Bridge on June 10th and June 11th. The Dragon Boat Races aren't the only ones on the river this year. On Sunday, June 25th, come cheer on kids and their families in the classic Rose Festival event, the Milk Carton Boat Races.
 Keely! I'm Keely from Franklin High School. When I'm not playing varsity tennis or trying new vegan recipes, you can find me attending school government fundraisers and meetings. I take pride in doing what I can do to lead by example in my high school community. Show pride in your community by keeping the streets of Portland clean and green. The Portland Rose Festival has been named the cleanest and greenest, working hard to keep the post-war streets spotless for over 20 years.
 Sade! I'm Sade from Grant High School. When I think of this year's Rose Festival theme, Brilliant, I think of Maya Angelou's poem, Phenomenal Woman. As an aspiring poet, senior mentor, and a youth basketball coach, I strive to inspire others to believe in their Anna Brilliance.
 Join me and these phenomenal women to see who will be crowned this year Queen of Rosaria. The Queens for Nation, presented by Unitas Community Credit Union, will take place on June 10th, 8.30 a.m. in the Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Watch the crowning take place right before the Grand Floor Parade, and we appreciate your support.
 I'm Mahi from Central Catholic High School. I'm the co-president of the Multicultural Club, a member of the African American Students Union, and the Girls Alliance Club. My favorite place in Portland is the Hoyt Arboretum. I enjoy learning about new plant species and following the paths to beautiful views of Portland. The Portland Rose Festival is proud to announce the Bloom Project as this year's official charity.
 The Bloom Project creates bouquets to bring beauty and joy to hospice patients around the community. Keep your eye out for more information on the Parade of Bouquets, where volunteers will work to repurpose Grand Floral Parade foot flowers into special bouquets to be shared with those in need of comfort.
 Beef Two! I am Beef Two from Cleveland High School. As a mentor, a student body leader, and an older sister, I am proud to be a role model for others. I hope to take the same approach with me as I begin my studies in pre-law and business. My favorite Rose Festival event is the Junior Parade, which celebrates our brilliant youth.
 Show your support for local youth by joining us for the Fred Meyer Junior Parade Wednesday, June 7th in the Hollywood District. Watch floats, community groups, baton twirls, marching bands, and dance teams go by. Can't see it in person? Watch telecast live on KPTV, Fox 10 at 12.
 Lucy! I'm Lucy from St. Mary's Academy. I value creativity in my life. I dedicate my time to photography, videography, and speech writing. My junior year, I was given the opportunity to present a TED Talk entitled The Power of Music, which focused on the physical, emotional, and philosophical effects of music on the world.
 If you're a music lover like me, make your way to downtown for a series of concerts happening this season in the Rose Zone. We've partnered with your favorite radio stations to bring you a variety of concerts. Check out the Kink H2O Show, The Brew presenting Cedar, and the Bulls Country Fest featuring Joe Nichols. Come down and join the musical fun.
 Mikayla! I'm Mikayla from Century High School representing the Metro West area. I enjoy the great outdoors and spending time with family and friends. I work with organizations such as Key Club International and Hillsboro's Youth Advisory
 As a member of the Hillsboro community, I aspire to exemplify our community slogan, Grow Great Things. You know who else grows great things? The International Rose Test Garden located at Washington Park. The Rose Garden will be celebrating their centennial year with 100 years of roses. Visit the Rose Garden store to get your memorabilia for this brilliant event.
 Maddie! I'm Maddie from Oregon City High School representing the Metro East area. Empowering women is an important part of my life. Through my work as a Girl Scout Ambassador and founder of my own anti-bullying organization, continue to find kindness. Our mission is to educate youth on how to recognize and resolve bullying through the power of kindness. This year, Cambia is empowering women and keeping Portland brilliant by bringing out the best women golf pros in the world.
 The Cambia Portland Classic will be held at Columbia Edgewater Golf Course on Labor Day weekend. Your Rose Festival souvenir pin will get you in free to City Fair and the Cambia Portland Classic. Come show your support for these brilliant women. Crochet! And I'm Crochet from Benson High School, where I'm an honor student athlete working to one day become a nurse practitioner. I enjoy playing volleyball and volunteering with the Red Cross organization to inspire others to live their life to the fullest by leading healthy lifestyles.
 Now hike or dance your way down the Grand Floral Parade route at the pre-parade Bank of the West Grand Floral Walk. Wear a funky costume or a branded t-shirt as you walk the walk past hundreds of thousands of spectators cheering you on. There's no better way to get your 10,000 steps in. Thank you for hosting the 2017 Rose Festival Court presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. We'll see you at the Rose Festival!
 2017 Rose Festival Corps, I would like to personally just thank all of you, everyone on council for hosting us. I present all of you with a signed poster from each of the princesses and a pin to welcome you to the Rose Festival family. Very good. So Susan, let's open these gates and let's have the ladies come over here. We'll get a picture with the city council before you leave. Does that sound good? We'll march the long way around here. Thanks. Yeah, thanks.
 Thank you.
 All right. On three. One, two, three. So everybody's going to be snapping. Two, three. Appreciate it. All right. Let's see. That was fun. All right. Good morning, everybody. This is the regularly scheduled meeting of the Portland City Council, Wednesday, May 24th, 2017. Susan, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udallie. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Here.
 Purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everybody to feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe at the meeting, and also to ensure the decorum is maintained. There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up.
 for communications to briefly speak about any subject that they would like to speak about. These items must be scheduled in advance with the city clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must be public.
 be about the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please state that. If you're here representing an organization, that's useful information as well.
 individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light will go on, you'll hear a beep. When your time is up, the red light goes on, you'll hear, I think it's like four or five beeps. Conduct that disrupts the meeting. For example, shouting.
 or interrupting other people's testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. Personal attacks and insults levied against city and council staff, many of whom are required to testimony as a condition of their employment, will not be tolerated.
 people who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anybody who's asked to leave and doesn't is subject to arrest for trespassing. So, again, on that happy note...
 Let's start with communication. The kids are all like shaking their heads going, yeah, of course. That's so obvious, right? It's obvious. Common sense, common decency, common courtesy. Please call the first item. We have communications today, item 522 through 526. And these are students from French American International School.
 Addressing counsel regarding community concerns from the youth perspective. And colleagues, they have asked for an additional two minutes. They have rehearsed their testimony, and it's two minutes over, and I believe we can extend that courtesy. I just want to remind you to speak into the microphones because that way the captioners can make sure that everybody can understand it both in the chambers and watching at home. Slide those mics as close to you, not right up to your face, but within six inches is about the right distance. There you go. Good job.
 Good morning. Good morning, everyone. My name is Lily Segna. I'm in sixth grade at Gilkey International Middle School. I'm here today to talk about a program I'd like to propose. This program would incorporate the Oregon silver spot butterfly into the Portland Public School curriculum to raise awareness that this butterfly, native to the West Coast, is listed as threatened on the endangered species list. The primary reason that the Oregon silver spot is threatened is due to habitat loss.
 The silver spot solely depends on blue violets to lay its eggs on and for its caterpillars to eat. Habitat loss is primarily due to the increasing number of invasive plants taking over the land the blue violets need to survive. The Oregon silver spot butterfly is important to the ecosystem, which is why we should protect it. This butterfly is important because it is a pollinator and an indicator species.
 What it means to be a pollinator is that the silver spot fertilizes plants, which causes the plants to produce food, which we then eat. As an indicator species, if silver spots disappear from an ecosystem, it means there's a problem in that ecosystem that could affect other pollinators. This butterfly is so important that the Oregon Zoo has a program to help restore its habitat and population.
 I'm asking you, Portland City Council members, to fund the Portland Public Schools to create a program that would incorporate the Oregon Silver Spot into the elementary school curriculum. My vision of this program could include a partnership with the zoo. In this program, students could play a game developed by the zoo to learn about the life cycle of the Oregon Silver Spot. They could also take a field trip to the zoo for a behind-the-scenes tour of the Oregon Silver Spot Restoration Project.
 I think this program should be aimed for elementary school kids, because if you pass a message to a kid, they will pass the message to everybody around them so that everybody hears the message. My ultimate goal is to raise awareness about endangered species by educating kids about the Oregon silver spot, which is listed as threatened on the federal endangered species list.
 The Oregon silver spot butterfly isn't just a pretty insect fluttering from flower to flower. It is also a large part of the world around us. If the population drops lower, we are taking away an important part of the ecosystem, an important part of our earth. When kids today see Oregon silver spot butterflies, it becomes a special memory. If the silver spot becomes extinct...
 We may be taking away the special memory for generations to come. Remember, your actions will impact the Earth for generation after generation, year after year. I hope you consider my proposal. Thank you for listening. Thank you. We appreciate it. Good morning. Hello, my name is Smriti. I'm Alisa.
 My name is Adriana. We are students at Gilkey International Middle School. We are here to tell you about the Portland homeless crisis. It is very noticeable, and it's getting worse and worse. And we have to do something about it. We are here to tell you some solutions we have come up with to give more homeless people homes and give them education to get them back on their feet. There are people that are homeless because of luck. But there are people that are homeless because of drugs, drinking, and losing things that they already have. So why don't we care about the homeless?
 They're people too, and they should deserve what we get. If we look down at them, it makes not only them unhappy, but us too.
 We will start overflowing with homeless on the street, so it's time to take action and make a difference. Oregon is the second worst in the country at providing shelters for the homeless. There is 620,000 homeless in Oregon, but we only have about 15 homeless shelters and two family shelters. Only 60.5% of Oregon's homeless have a shelter to sleep in every night.
 A homeless shelter is a place where you can go when times are rough, but think about if you have a family. You don't want to separate from your family, and that's why we need more family shelters.
 It is scary to leave your family and live alone, and that's why we need more family shelters. A family shelter is where families can go when times are rough, but think about a family shelter is where families can stay together and learn about managing money and other necessary life skills. We only have two family shelters in Oregon and only have about six rooms in each, and we need way more than six rooms to help get families off the streets.
 Family shelters not only give a roof over their head, but educate people on living so they can get back on their feet. But regular shelters don't offer that, and that has to change, because everyone deserves to have a roof over their head and some education.
 In conclusion, we have come up with a couple of solutions to help get homeless people off the streets. Our first solution is to simply get more family shelters in Oregon. This is expensive but is very effective. Another more reasonable solution is to add more rooms to the current family shelters. We have had enough time waiting, and it's time to take action before it's too late. Help make Portland a better place. Our sources are PortlandOregon.gov, CityJournal.org.
 And the Multnomah County Department of County Human Services. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Excellent testimony. And were there more students, Susan? Oh, very good. Good morning. There's one more chair down there. There you go. And again, if you could just make sure the microphones, they go up and down and to the side. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Camille, and I believe that some dog parks should be fenced. I do not want all dog parks to be fenced, because some dogs like to run around free, but more than 10 out of 26. In your packet, there are some maps of places I would like to fence.
 Because I'm the owner of an exuberant chocolate lab, I like knowing I can let him loose and still have the peace of mind he won't run away or get hurt. Also, being allergic to dogs is very common and can be very dangerous. In fact, according to abcnews.go.com, 15% of people are allergic to dogs and 30% of people with asthma are allergic to pets.
 If we fence dog parks, people in the park that are allergic won't have to worry constantly. Also, parents who don't know if their child is allergic won't have to worry that there has been a dog in the park.
 According to bringfido.com, there's at least 36 dog parks in Portland and only 10 are fenced. Those parks are the Field Park, East Delta Park, Gabriel Park, Portland International Raceway Park, Brentwood Park, Normandale Park, North Clackamas Park, Cooch Park, and Chimney Park. That means dog owners may have to drive far to get to one of those parks. I want to make sure every dog can get to a fenced park.
 The government can fund fencing of my chosen five parks, Fern Hill, Fraser, Lowerhurst, Overlook, and Woodstock Parks. In your packet, you can see my ideas for where I would fence those parks. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Parsa. And I'm Aira. Today we're going to talk about graffiti, specifically in our beautiful city of Portland, Oregon. We'll be telling you why we are against all graffiti, including hateful graffiti and the type you see on the side of the highways, which may or may not be inappropriate. So, as you can see, our topic is graffiti, especially getting rid of hateful graffiti, and it is getting worse.
 kptb.com. It is costing Oregon $300,000 to $400,000 per year. This is beyond what it should be costing, and we have to do something about it. We want to help you do something about it. I am passionate about this because our community has recently struggled keeping anti-Semitic and hate against anyone for race, gender, or religion under control and out of our Portland neighborhoods.
 I am passionate about this particular issue because our planet is giving us a clean and healthy life and we're spray painting hateful things which is harmful to our environment because we're spreading the bad toxins in the air from the spray paint. I'm also passionate about this issue because it is offensive to many of our Portland residents and people all over the world that are put down by these unnecessary and disrespectful remarks that they see on the side of walls and buildings everywhere they go. This is not healthy for others or ourselves, seeing as people that spray paint these things are simply doing it out of boredom.
 I don't like the idea of making our planet dirty because the planet gave us an opportunity and we are wasting it and misusing the rights we have. I am also passionate about this particular issue because I was raised in a Jewish household with two mothers. I have noticed that some of these hateful messages that we are seeing around Portland are directed at Jewish people and the LGBT community.
 According to OregonLive.com, on Monday, March 13, 2017, residents of southeast Portland, Oregon, woke up to swastika graffiti in their neighborhood on cars, fences, trees, and various other items. Also, according to K2 News, on March 20, 2017, the neighbors that were victims of the swastika graffiti were protesting against anti-Semitic graffiti spray-painted on people's cars in southeast Portland.
 More than 100 people gathered at Waverly Heights Congregational Sunday School to have a rally against hateful graffiti and let people know that hate won't be tolerated in their neighborhood. Many people drew Jewish stars and other signs in chalk on the sidewalk and called it peace painting. Even though we know some graffiti is made on purpose for decoration, most graffiti is made when people get bored. This means they'll probably get together and start illegally spray painting some walls. Some people enjoy the adrenaline rush of doing something illegal or running away from cops on purpose.
 We believe that not all graffiti is bad. If graffiti is done on a property that they don't have a permit to be on, or if it is hateful, such as some of the graffiti we have seen recently, but graffiti can be good if the people do it for decoration and they're simply doing it out of enjoyment of doing art. Another reason graffiti can be good is if they're doing it in a place where they have a permit to be on or their own property. And finally, they can release stress by spray painting.
 We need your help with educating people that we are all the same and we should celebrate diversity. Also, we would like to help you by possibly starting a fundraiser with volunteers or collaborate with a community group to raise money to pay for graffiti removal.
 We will be open to any ideas or suggestions you may have regarding downsizing the cost of graffiti removal so we can once again focus on paying for education and getting our art and music back into the curriculum. After our current president, Donald Trump, was elected, there were a number of hate crimes, including racist and other disrespectful graffiti that has suicidal messages, and this resulted in many calls to a suicide prevention hotline. We think that this is unacceptable.
 and we need to be welcoming and understanding of others and celebrate our differences instead of putting people down. Thank you for your time, and we hope you will consider our ideas. Thank you. I can just slide it right over. There you go. Hello. Hello. My name is Andrew, and I come from the Gokey International School, and I'm here to talk about solar power and why it is better for our planet.
 Although dirty energy and fossil fuels don't seem like a threat, going solar is very important to me because I am very sensitive to pollution and smoke. Sometimes when I go walking downtown, it's hard for me to breathe, and this bothers me because I don't enjoy walking outside as much as I used to. Solar power is one of the most efficient energies, and it is one of the most environmental friendlies.
 Other energies like fossil fuels need to be burned, and this energy causes lots of pollution, and it creates the greenhouse effect, heating up our planet. Switching to solar is not the most expensive, too, and is good for environment. And other energies are limited because they can run out and are very unhealthy. Solar is infinite because it comes from the sun.
 Although solar can be expensive and not too many people go solar, I have made up some solutions so people can go solar. I think people should get a tax incentive when they go solar so it will be easier for people to go solar. Another solution is to make a program to educate kids about solar so they will see this as a threat and hopefully make a difference in the future.
 My last solution is to change the law a little bit so some energies will be banned. And this will be expensive. It's to change the law that some energies are banned so people can switch to solar. But solar isn't the cheapest, but it will help in the long run. Thank you for your time and having me, and goodbye. Thanks, Laura. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Okay.
 Hi, my name is Ashwin. Thank you for having me and listening to my issue. I think traffic is a huge problem in Portland. People are sitting in their cars for hours with their engines on while they could be doing something else. Most people have gas cars in Portland and when their engines are on in traffic, they release extra gas into the atmosphere. I am an environmentalist and care about our atmosphere so I want to find a solution. A study by the
 The INRIX confirms the extent of our problem by ranking us the city with the 12th worst commute in the country, and that's 40th in the world. That's out of 240 U.S. cities and 1,064 worldwide. And congestion is expected to get worse in Oregon, according to the Economic Impacts of Congestion Study released at the 2015 Oregon Business Summit.
 The study said that if traffic spending is not increased, the average metropolitan household will be stuck in congestion for 69 hours a year by 2040, triple the time in 2010.
 The impact on freight-dependent businesses will be even greater because such congestion can cause them to miss critical shipments, reducing the state's economic competitiveness because many goods travel through the Portland region. Also, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, echoing many other predictions of explosive growth, estimates that by 2035, the city will add
 260,000 new residents, commuting to 140,000 new jobs. If current habits continue, that means about half a million more daily solo trips. But you must have heard before that we have bad traffic.
 But my solution is to put toll booths on frequently used roads so people who aren't willing to pay the tax will go on less used roads.
 My other solution is to put a tax relief on companies that make flexible starting times, because rush hour is when all businesses start and end, and during that time, everyone is trying to get home, and there's tons of traffic. If companies make flexible starting and ending times, people can go home.
 earlier and later. Since everyone is going home at different times, there won't be as much traffic. By using these ideas, we'll be able to reduce traffic, and by doing that, reduce pollution. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Adeline Reed, and I am here to talk to you about an idea I had. I have given you a page with some visual aids to refer to during or after this time. I think that we should place toy lending chests around Portland.
 What are toy lending chests? If you see a toy that you would play with, you take it out. Just remember to be courteous and put something you don't use in to replace it. That way, another kid can have it.
 instead of it going and sitting in your house and collecting dust. Something that might seem old and uninteresting to one might be new and exciting to another. I think that having these would build community because people would be sharing. It would also make people feel more connected and cared for if they're poor and can't afford to buy toys.
 On the environmental side, it would help too, because another kid can have the toy you put in instead of it going to the dump, and that kid having to buy a toy, then consuming more than we need to. This issue is important to me because I have toys sitting in my room that I don't use. I feel that I shouldn't when someone else could be enjoying them.
 Kids should definitely have access to some toys. According to the Child Development Institute, toys are more than just fun and games for kids. Most toys provide at least some opportunity for the children to learn. The best toys engage a child's senses, spark their imaginations, and encourage them to interact with others. And we all need some stuff. Many of us have taken it too far. Though according to the minimalist, the average American household contains more than 300,000 possessions.
 According to Psychology Today, when we anticipate buying something, it releases a chemical in our brains called dopamine. Dopamine makes us happy, and we want more of it. We can get addicted to this chemical, buying more and more. These around neighborhoods or town would help decrease consumption and compulsory consumption, and encourage people to share and find things they like for no money and no material wasted.
 What I need from you is permission to place these in some public parks around Portland. Even a few would be OK. But according to Parks and Recreation, there are 144 public parks in Portland. I just want to take the first step to having them all over. To do that, I will need a grant of about $413.68.
 That would pay for four waterproof boxes to put in four of the parks around Portland. If I get this grant, I have decided to put the boxes in these parks, Washington Park Playground, Jameson Square, Kun Amokwis Park, and Peninsula Park. I chose these parks because they all have some open space where I could imagine a toy lending chest going. I also tried to spread them out around Portland. I hope you consider my idea. Thank you for listening. Thank you. Thank you.
 So is that the end of the kids' testimony? I understand there – do we have more? I understand the teacher is here. Minda McCandless, are you here? Did you want to just say for 30 seconds the reason for being here? And I understand you'd like to have a picture with the kids. And so if you could do that, then we could file up here and have a picture with the kids. That would be a lot of fun. I'm sorry, you have to speak into the mic because it's a public meeting. Sorry. I know.
 Actually, not everybody in the class spoke because some went to Salem last week to do state issues, but they all picked issues that they cared about and did research and tried to come up with solutions that were viable that were involving the government and or the community. So thanks for having us. Thank you for being here. And kids, thank you for your excellent, excellent testimony. It is well received. So why don't we file down here. We'll take a picture.
 No. I have no idea. It's pulled from the consent agenda. No items pulled. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Southman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Next item times certain 527, please.
 Item 527, proclaim May 30, 2017 to be Vanport Day of Remembrance in Portland. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Well, it keeps getting better. First, we had the Rose Festival Court gracing us this morning, then these wonderful sixth graders and their incredibly creative solutions. Thank you.
 And now we're going to honor the Band Court Day of Remembrance. And the way we honor this event is the mayor gets to issue a proclamation. And before he issues the proclamation, I want to invite up Laura Lowry, Ms. Gilmore, Ms. Sims, and Mr. McGee. If you will take seats up at the – and if I haven't got that right, will Laura – do I have the right people? If not, please come forward. She's running the show. Thank you.
 And the mayor is going to read the proclamation, and then we're going to hear from our honored guests, and we're also going to acknowledge the other honored guests that are with us in chambers today. So, Mayor? Thank you, Commissioner. Whereas our understanding of history shapes our view of the present, and in order to understand where we are going, we must understand where we are from.
 And whereas 2017 is the 75th anniversary of the construction of Vanport, built in 1942, and whereas Vanport was once the country's largest public housing project and Oregon's second largest city with a peak population of 40,000 people,
 Whereas the Vanport community was intended as temporary housing for shipbuilders during World War II and included schools, stores, a hospital, a movie theater, and a two-year college. And whereas Vanport became an experiment in racial integration.
 For as many as 25% of its residents from all corners of the country were African American, when African Americans were less than 1% of the entire state's population. And whereas Vanport was constructed in the Columbia River floodplain and was protected from the river by a series of levees.
 And whereas the Columbia River flooded on May 30, 1948, immediately displacing 18,700 residents. And whereas Vanport Mosaic will hold a festival for May 26-30, 2017 to honor and celebrate Vanport as an essential and often forgotten chapter in Portland's history.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 30th, 2017 to be Vanport Day of Remembrance in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. So proclaim it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Beatrice Gilmore. I go by B. Gilmore.
 And the reason for that is because when I migrated from the south, many people did not know, well, they knew how to pronounce Beatrice. But saying from being from the south, it was Beatrice. I was called a few other forms of Beatrice, Beatrice, which was okay. But I thought, okay, let's have a name that's consistent, and that is Beatrice.
 So I call myself Bea. We moved here in 1944, originally from Louisiana and through Las Vegas, Nevada. So coming from Louisiana was quite different than what I could dream of. But when I landed here in Portland, we moved into Vanport.
 Vanport, with its apartments, and all cultures from all over the United States, and people who had ethnicities different than mine. So it was an opportunity for mixing. And in order to make a cake, if we were going to make a cake, we would need ingredients.
 And those ingredients can be found as you think about the history of Vanport, the ethnicities, the communications that took place, the mingling and the mixing. And so in order for you and me and all of our populations now to do that,
 We could learn a lot by studying the history of Vanport and the fact that it was the second largest city in Portland and had all of the ingredients that we still need today to make a beautiful cake. I thank you for hearing me. Thank you, B, for being here. We appreciate it. Good morning, Mayor Ted Wheeler and members. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Ted Wheeler and members of the Portland City Council. My name is Orinze McGee. I am nine years old and was born in Portland, Oregon. I live in northeast Portland with my family. I'm a third grader at Richmond Elementary where I enjoy learning to speak Japanese, doing math, and reading. I am also the biggest Portland Trailblazers fan. Okay.
 I'm honored to be the youngest historian slash producer for the Vampore Mosaic Project. I became interested after meeting Miss Laura at the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. event at Highland Church. I talked to her for over 45 minutes. After that day, I did research about Vampore and attended training at the Portland Community Media Center.
 I developed interview questions and interviewed Mr. Kelly, who was a young boy like me when he escaped the floods. He reflected on his childhood with some fun and sad memories. The stories Mr. Kelly shared inspired me to want to learn more by interviewing other survivors. Mr. Kelly and I will also go fishing this summer. That's great. Bing.
 Being a part of this local history project has allowed me to better understand my Portland history. History is important to be shared because it allows us to understand and learn from the past. I feel like my friends, people in the community, and people in the future should know about Vanport. It is important to learn about history such as Vanport because it also helps you to define your roots and empower you.
 History allows us to learn from the past and compare changes from back then and now. The Vanport Project allowed me to meet new people.
 increase my understanding of Portland's history and learn about my black community. I learn a lot from the elders and gain new skills that will help me. Learning about Vanport makes me want to advocate with Portland Public Schools to make this part of our curriculum. Local history is just as important as natural history.
 We must understand our history to have a bright future. Please join us at the upcoming festival. Thank you. Very good. Excellent. Who's next? Good morning. Good morning. My name is Shalonda Sims. I am a local artist here.
 How my connection to Vanport is my great grandmother came here during the war to work in the shipyard and our family has been here ever since. I am a fourth generation Oregonian, my children are fifth generation. Before this all came about, I was researching my family's history, trying to figure out why we were here in Oregon because there's not a large population of African Americans here.
 Upon my research, that's when I found out that we came here because of Vanport. There wasn't much information, only in books, in text. And that didn't give a lot of information about Vanport. So I was fortunate enough to speak to some people who lived during that time. One person was Stel. They call her Stel. And she has passed away now. But she was one of the first people.
 African-American women to be here in Vanport and to work in the shipyards. Another lady, her name is Regina Flowers, and she is like a walking history book on all things Vanport. That sparked me to write a play called Vanport, put some music to it, and that was in 2013.
 Since then, we have the Vanport Mosaic Festival, we have oral history, and it is growing, and now we have a proclamation. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Hello. My name is Robert Matsunaga, and I guess I'm a substitute for someone. Anyway...
 This is the second time we were displaced in Vanport. The first time was during World War II when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor. Being of Japanese descent, we were interned. We were first sent to the Portland stockyards, and then afterwards we were sent to the Menadoka concentration camp in Menadoka, Idaho.
 We were in camp for about from 1942 to the end of the war in 1945. At that time, we couldn't find any affordable housing there.
 after the war was over. So we moved to Vanport, which was affordable at the time. And it was a very diverse area. I mean, you had African Americans and you have Latinos and you have American Indians and, of course, many Caucasians. But at that time, it was sort of like a segregated, I mean, the schools were not segregated, they were integrated.
 But we lived in different sections, and we lived on Cottonwood Drive in Vanport. And at the time the flood occurred, I was at a movie theater, and there was an announcement on the PA system that the dike broke and that we were all told to evacuate and head for our homes. And when I got to my home, which was several blocks from the theater,
 We hopped on a car and we picked up two other families with us. So we headed up on Denver Avenue to escape the flood. I could see the waters coming. And it was kind of a very horrific experience because it was gridlocked. I mean, everybody headed out to Denver Avenue. And that was the only way to get into Vanport was through Denver Avenue going in and out.
 So it was quite a traumatic experience, and like I said, I was eight years old at the time, and I'm glad that they're having this recognition for Vanport. Thank you. We appreciate your day. Thank you. Would you come up for a sec? Laura LaFourdie, could you come up for a sec? Because I think we're going to take a picture with everybody, but can you just tell us where the public can get information about the festival? And then we're going to acknowledge some special guests that are here, and I think we're going to do a photograph. Is that right, Mary Helen? That would be great. Okay.
 We do have some signs. Okay, go ahead. Thank you for your special permission. Can you hear me? Is that on? Yeah. Please join us. Push the button. Yeah, push the button. Yeah, push the button. There you go. There you go.
 Please join us at the Vamper Mosaic Festival, May 26th to 29th, in different venues in North and Northeast Portland. You can find the program at our website, vampermosaic.org. And we have programs, we have flyers, and see you there. Very good. Thank you.
 EASY SET THE PICTURES. BUT ON THE TOUR OF THE DAY, THERE WILL BE BURMERSAVE SIGNS ALL ALONG THE TOUR WITH FACTS ABOUT BAMFORD. UP, UP. SO MAYOR, SHOULD WE TAKE A PICTURE WITH EVERYBODY? SURE. I MIGHT ADD, I MADE IT BY SECURITY WITH THESE SIGNS. SO WANT TO TAKE A PHOTOGRAPH OVER HERE? LET'S GET EVERYONE OVER HERE, LAURIE. DO YOU WANT TO PUT THESE SIGNS ON THE CHAIR? YEAH, WHY DON'T WE DO THAT? WE CAN HOLD THEM. OH, THERE. OKAY. YOU WANT TO HOLD THEM? WE HAVE PEOPLE IN THE ROOM
 Folks, why don't we come in here? Come on in. Young man, nice job. You have a real future. All right, folks, while we're getting settled in for the next item, Susan, could you please call the roll on, or excuse me, could you please call the next item? Item 528.
 Declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Northeast 27th Avenue and Holland Street local improvement district. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I'll turn it over to our very capable LID administrator, Andrew Abbey. Thank you very much, Commissioner Saltzman. I'm Andrew Abbey, local improvement district administrator. Sue, could we switch to the presentation? Yes.
 This is a map of the proposed Northeast 27th Avenue and Holland Street LID. This area is known for heavy industrial usage. 27th and Holland are local streets in an industrial area just south of Northeast Columbia Boulevard. This is a fairly small LID with four property owners' proposed petition for inclusion in the LID.
 So right now we have LID support of 95%. We got petition support from three of the four property owners. We got no support from one of the four property owners.
 and I'll be passing out an amendment here. We did receive correspondence from the property owner who did not petition in favor, and he has been asked to be removed from the LID, and normally that is difficult to do, but in this instance, we're not fully reconstructing the street. We're building curb, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements and doing
 minor pavement preservation work. So it is feasible to do that in this instance. So I do recommend that council adopt
 This amendment to remove 2706 Northeast Columbia Boulevard from the LID and that obligation for frontage improvements would be deferred until redevelopment of the property. Is a motion. Do we need to put that on the table? I would move that amendment. Second. Commissioner Saltzman moves the amendment. Commissioner Fish seconds. Any further discussion on the amendment? Seeing none, please call the roll on the amendment. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. Amendment's accepted. Continue. Sorry to interrupt. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. So this next slide is of that property that you just removed from the LID that is about a 65-year-old building and clearly will redevelop, and then we'll get the full extent of the improvements. You notice the bus stop sign there on the right. This area is along a fairly frequent transit service line, and so we're looking forward to making some sidewalk and curb ramp upgrades. Okay.
 You can see right now that what we have out there right now is kind of a wide swath of pavement. We really don't have any stormwater management. You can see that kind of vegetated area on the right side of the screen. Basically, the stormwater comes off the street, and it basically flows adjacent to or on private property, and so we're going to build stormwater facilities. This is Northeast Holland Street. It's the site of a future transfer station. You'll be hearing more property owner testimony about that.
 Northeast 27th Avenue used to connect the Lombard Street. It became a dead end when the rail crossing was closed a number of years ago, and so the LID is pretty straightforward. We're just going to realign the street, shift it about five or six feet to the west, and then build a dead end stormwater facility curb and sidewalks and facilitate future. Nope, we're at the end of the presentation. So that's all the testimony I have for you today. I'm happy to answer any questions. Otherwise, I believe we have three people here to testify.
 Very good. Any immediate questions? Seeing none, we'll call it public testimony. We have three signed up. Jason Wright, Steve McInnis, and Mark Newsome. Come on up. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. My name is Jason Wright. Thank you. I am an attorney from Follin Alterman Richardson. I am working with McInnis Investments, who is the owner of the property that's subject to this LID improvement. My specific task is to
 has been to be working with the DEQ relative to some usage on the property. Ultimately, we're trying to develop it to become a transfer station permit. River City Environmental, who Mr. McGinnis is here and will talk about, has been using the site currently for some street sweepings. We stage stuff there until we get a full load, and then we take it off site. Right.
 We have been working with the DEQ for a period of a year to try and come up with a way to environmentally friendly build a transfer station permit. One of the things that I'd point out is that as part of this LID project, which we're greatly appreciative of from the city,
 is that we will be the first private and only the third entity in the state of Oregon to actually have an environmentally friendly transfer station. So through the use of this LID, specifically with regard to the stormwater issues, which are of course...
 clear importance for everyone when you're dealing with these types of materials. It's going to allow for that type of development to occur and it's going to benefit all of us, ultimately, in the creation of jobs and an environmentally friendly permit for transfer of waste. So thank you very much. I appreciate the Commissioner's time and the Mayor's time. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor. Morning. Council. I'm Steve McGinnis, River City Environmental. We've been in the waste collection business here in Portland for over 40 years. We have right now a little over 125 employees. This site here, we'd like to develop it. We'd look to add anywhere from two to five more employees on this site and to be able to handle some of our waste streams here.
 When coming on board, this is actually our third LID to be involved with with the City of Portland. We'd like to thank the folks that we've been able to work with, especially being able to work alongside of Andrew Abbey.
 I have to say that I was really the skeptic of saying I never wanted to see an LID, never wanted to play in one of them. We actually have a site where we've done two of them on, and this will be another site that we'll be doing the third one. Right now we just ask for your support.
 and we look forward to being able to partner with the city again to achieve this.
 Also, we're looking forward to inviting the mayor, all the council folks out, and the people that have participated in the city of Portland to help us on another site that we have one of these on. We actually have one of them. It was on 109th, and our property started at one site and went through to the 112th. And everything good that it's brought to our business and to the neighborhood. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that very much.
 I'm Mark Newsome, also with River City. I just wanted to add that in addition to the 125 folks that we employ in our existing location, that we've been working very hard to find additional real estate that we can further develop to keep ourselves within the city of Portland, and we appreciate your support on this property. It will really help us continue to grow our business and stay within the city, which is really a challenge today with the availability of property.
 So this is very important to us to retain people here. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any further public testimony? I just had one question. We're talking about a solid waste transfer station? Yes. Okay. Correct. You referred to it as environmentally friendly. I'm just curious what makes it environmentally friendly. Not to say that a transfer station isn't, but... Well, one of the issues that's come up and that the DEQ is sort of cluing in on and working through right now is sort of how and the ways in which
 different materials get staged and they're protected for environmental issues as well as water runoff, which is obviously a big concern when you have these types of things. And I know, Commissioner Fritz, this is near and dear to your heart. So, you know, one of the things that we've been trying to do because of the circumstances with the property is that we want to create a
 functional usable building that is going to be able to house temporarily uh... street sweeping waste and other waste in a way that is going to allow it to be properly contained until such time as it can go to where it needs to go and one of the things that we see throughout the city right now is sort of how is that going to play out in the DEQ is taking an active role in trying to make sure those changes happen
 So we're happy that we're a frontrunner in that and working specifically with the DEQ for the past year to talk about what is it that we really want to do here for the city of Portland to make sure that these sweepings are properly contained, we don't have water runoff, and to the extent that we can, keeping them in an environmentally safe manner so that we don't have any issues that arise. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions, colleagues? Very good. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Thank you all very much. Aye. Zossman. Thank you, and thank you, Andrew, once again. Aye. Udeli. Fritz. Thank you for being here. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Next item, please. Thank you.
 All the way to the regular agenda. Item 546, ensure tax fairness in the sharing economy and delegate subpoena power to the Revenue Division. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I want to invite Thomas Lanham and Ken McGuire forward, and they will be presenting this morning. This past February, Portland City Council referred a ballot measure to the voters, 26-194. It was designed to expand and clarify our authority to regulate the short-term rental industry.
 And just last week, voters overwhelmingly approved these changes. This update to the charter gives the City Council broader authority to adapt to changes in technology and industry practices to ensure tax fairness and to protect public health and safety. As my colleagues know, the City of Portland has had difficulty obtaining regulatory compliance from certain internet companies like Airbnb, HomeAway, and other short-term rental platforms.
 This includes paying their fair share of lodging taxes and ensuring that all of their guests are safe. The ballot measure essentially raised a fundamental question of tax fairness. Specifically, is it fair for a mom-and-pop bed and breakfast in St. John's to pay the lodging tax, while out-of-state companies like HomeAway refuse to pay it? And the answer the voters gave us was a resounding no.
 So today, colleagues, we're moving quickly to implement the will of the voters by updating our code language and making the changes necessary to ensure that HomeAway and others in the short-term rental industry play by the rules. We're also moving to give the Revenue Bureau new subpoena authority, which they need in order to ensure that short-term rentals are safe.
 With us today are Thomas Lanham, Director of the Revenue Bureau, and Ken McGeer, Deputy City Attorney, to walk us through what the resolution does. And Mayor, I want to use this occasion to thank both of these gentlemen, and particularly Ken, who drafted the language on the ballot measure and worked with us when we put this on the ballot.
 for their work and a special thank you to the voters that took the time to understand this issue and gave us a big vote of Confidence in this most recent election. So Thomas will turn over to you. Thank you Commissioner. Good morning again My name is Thomas Lanham I'm the director of the city Portland revenue division and joining me is Ken McGeer from the city attorney's office I think Commissioner fish covered the background pretty well, so I will keep this brief. I
 The resolution before you today directs the Revenue Division and the City Attorney's Office to draft an ordinance delegating a subpoena authority to the Revenue Division for the enforcement of provisions of the Transient Lodging Tax Code as they relate to the short-term rental platforms. Short-term rental platforms have argued that federal law preempts local ordinances from requiring them to provide host data short of a subpoena. Thank you.
 We also intend to bring forward other amendments to the City Code. For example, at present, the Code prohibits short-term rental platforms from displaying listings unless they also display a city-issued permit number. This provision also appears to have a federal preemption problem.
 To resolve this, we intend to follow San Francisco's approach, which is to make it a violation of city code for a short-term rental platform to accept a fee or compensation for listing a non-permitted location. This is a very subtle but important distinction that does not run afoul of federal law. So that's an example of another code amendment that we will likely be bringing forward in June, and there may be others. Thank you.
 So these code amendments, again, will come forward in June. And I can stop there, and Ken and I are available to answer any questions you may have. Any questions, colleagues? Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? Very good. Call the roll. Fish. Well, again, I want to thank the council for forwarding the ballot measure to the ballot.
 I want to thank you for joining me in advocating for the ballot measure. I want to particularly thank all the editorial boards that took up the issue, looked at it critically and gave us a thumbs up and helped us convince the voters this was the right thing to do. The money that we will ultimately collect in ensuring that there's a level playing field and there's tax fairness,
 will be money that we use to provide basic services, but in particular will help us address our housing crisis. So this is really important that we get it right and we make sure everyone pays their fair share. And the information that Thomas will be seeking with subpoenas is the kind of information we need to be able to say to guests and visitors, you are safe if you rent a short-term rental in the city of Portland. So this is a big step forward. I'm grateful to Thomas and Ken for their good work
 And I also want to give a shout-out to my chief of staff and others in my office who have been working on this. And thanks to them. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and Revenue Division and Ken McGeer. Aye. Udailey. Aye.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish and Revenue Division. And I would just like to add that a few years ago, we set some reasonable rules and regulations around short-term rentals. And some platforms have been better at complying than others. But they've also afforded their hosts ways to kind of circumvent our rules and regulations. So I think that we need to strengthen them. And I'm pleased to hear that we'll be doing that. Aye. Aye.
 Commissioner Fish, thank you for your leadership on this very important issue. I'd also like to extend my thanks. This was one of those fairly arcane ballot measures, and I know that the Revenue Division and Commissioner Fish and his staff spent a considerable amount of time going through the feathered detail of the proposed ballot measure. Thank you.
 It was a landslide victory, Commissioner Fish, and I think that's always a good thing. To some degree, the Commissioner and I would joke about some of the arcane details, but the reality is that this was a really important ballot measure. It didn't get the attention, but it was a really important ballot measure because it gave us as the regulatory body the tools we need to enforce the regulations
 fairly across the board. And as Commissioner Fish said correctly in his opening remarks, this was also about tax fairness. So I think it was very, very important that it pass, and I do thank all the people who worked so hard on it, and certainly the voters who saw the wisdom in this important measure as well. I vote aye, and the resolution is adopted. Thank you. Next item, please. 547, amend fee schedules for tree permits.
 Short and to the point, Commissioner Fritz, I don't know if you had any comments you'd like to make or if we just can turn this over. I actually do. Thank you, Mayor. Very good. Thank you. Portland Parks and Recreation, as we know, is largely a general fund bureau. It also charges fees for its permitting services and it aims for cost recovery in many cases. However, in the case of tree permits, we set the policy guidance that we would not be charging for cost recovery in order to encourage compliance with the regulations.
 So we're going to move a little bit closer to cost recovery. The cost recovery right now for tree-related fees is about 30%. This proposal only inches forward with 32%. Until we have a council discussion and a direction to move more to complete cost recovery, I felt more comfortable with the...
 smaller change. But as the Council wisely adopted or will adopt for sure the budget note requiring Portland Parks and Recreation to come back to look at with a proposal on how to have less reliance on general fund, I would suggest that bringing the tree fund fees
 to cost recovery the tree program is something that we should consider. And I'd like to turn it over to Jeff Schaefer, who this may be his last time of testimony before in the council, before he's going to be the Dean of Finances of Clackamas Community College. Excellent. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Council. For the record, my name is Jeff Schaefer. I'm the Finance Manager for Portland Parks and Rec. I'm here today to get approval for the 2017-18 fee schedule for our tree permitting program for Urban Forestry Division.
 Some background, Title 11 Tree Code was implemented in 2015 and with it we increased our regulatory responsibility for the Portland Parks and Rec Urban Forestry Division. The fees associated in this schedule are for supporting the delivery of those services associated with that regulatory service.
 As the Commissioner mentioned, it's going up roughly from a 30% cost recovery to 32% cost recovery. Overall, globally, that's about an 8% increase over the current year's rates. That comes roughly from about 3% of inflationary costs, which are...
 cost of living cost, along with another 5% that came through the budgetary process to displace the general fund subsidy by 5%, and therefore that's the other 5% of that raise in those fees. Thank you.
 The increase, one thing I think I was going to note with the 32% cost recovery is that with that, that means you're using general fund subsidy for every one of these permits that gets pulled and that we provide those services on. The way that translated really means that the urban forestry division only has so many of these they could do in a year and remain within their own general fund subsidy.
 operating budget. So as the economy improves and there's more and more of these permits being pulled, it's harder for that urban forestry division to respond within a timely manner because they can still only respond to like, let's say, 6,000 permits in a year.
 But if we have 75,000 being pulled, it creates like a three-week backlog in the timing of those permits. So I think it's just important when you have full cost recovery, like most other bureaus are 75% to 100% cost recovery, you can just increase your staffing levels to accommodate the demand. But with urban forestry, they would overspend their budget if they tried to do that.
 So I think it's just parallel conversations that happen that's important to just correlate the 32% still has some subsidy built into it in order to help encourage the permits get used. And I'd just like to add to that that we are also mindful of the cost of permits in general and that the direction from the Mayor earlier this year had been to try to
 keep that level or reduce even. So that's another of the policy questions to be discussed. Without any questions? So I guess what is the impact of a tree permit not being granted in a timely manner? I think
 With it not being granted in a timely manner would be more of an impact to the development community that's, you know, if you have a 21-day delay just due to the structural issues of the program, that's probably impacting their cost on the development side. So it's just a customer service issue really at the end of the day. Okay. Thanks. Just to further clarify, most of the fees here are –
 associated with development and restoration. There's only two non-development related fee updates. One is a $25 increase on the planting and establishment fee in lieu, which is per inch from $300 to $325.
 per inch, the cost recovery would be $480. And these funds go into the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund, per the code. And the other is a $250 increase in the programmatic permit applications from $5,500 to $5,750. A cost recovery would be $6,773. And the total estimated increase from the new fees is $91,400.
 Excellent. Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. All right.
 Very good. Any further comments or questions? Well, just a further note that, as I said, the annual revenue from the new fees is $91,400. This corresponds to the reduction in the urban forestry general fund revenue by $100,000, which the council agreed to in principle and will vote on. It still obviously makes even more of a hole with the $8,600 to get to the number that we put in the budget.
 Very good. And I want to thank you, Commissioner Fritz, and to the TREE program for working hard to find ways to make this a self-sustaining program. So I appreciate the good work that went into this. Unless there's any other comment. Just thank you again to Jeff Schaefer. He's certainly taught me a lot over the five years I've been in charge of Portland Parks and Recreation. Really appreciate your service. Clackamas County is going to be very— I appreciate your guidance and leadership along with Commissioner Fish over the years I've been—my 23 years here. Thank you.
 Wow. Thank you. Very good. Congratulations on your new gauge. Congratulations. Thank you. Very good. This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. Next item, please. Item 548, accept contract with Kodiak Pacific Construction for the construction of the Road 10 Milepost 3 to 4.6 and Road 10 Milepost 4.6 to 6.2 project as complete. Release retainage and authorize final payment.
 Mayor, we're joined this morning by Teresa Elliott, the chief engineer of the Water Bureau. This is a project closeout, including authorizing final payment. The project was originally budgeted for $2 million.
 $20,202.02. Say that three times quickly. The final construction contract total was $1,431,000 and change, which is 29% under the original contract amount. This decrease was accomplished by reducing the full subgrade reconstruction in many areas due to better subgrade conditions than were anticipated. And Teresa Elliott is here to answer any of your questions. Thank you.
 I'm Teresa Elliott, chief engineer, Portland Water Bureau. The only thing I would add is that that contract was also done with 64% MWESB participation. Wow. And our prime contractor was a WESB contractor. So let me just – I'll make a comment.
 And maybe I'll ask a question here. The comment is, number one, thank you for bringing this project in basically 30 percent under budget. I'm not sure that the narrative on government is necessarily consistent with the reality of the work that you've done on that point. How did you get such excellent results with regard to MWESB contracting? Yeah.
 Primarily, our prime contractor was an MW contractor. And then so we would have had 100%, except that they subcontracted a little bit of their work out to non-MW ESB contractors. So the key is the prime contractor. The key is the prime contractor in this case. Road construction, there are a lot of MW contractors that are capable of doing the work.
 And then as far as coming in under budget, that will affect our percentage as well. Excellent. Thank you. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? No one said that. I'll accept a motion. Thank you.
 So moved. Move to accept the report. Commissioner Fish moves to the report. Commissioner Fritz seconds the report. Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you, Teresa. And we have, I guess, two other items. Yes, I do. That's why I just sit here. So settle in. Thank you. Saltzman. Aye. Udalline. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for your good work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Next item. Thank you.
 Item 549, authorize a contract with Corollo Engineers, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $291,852 for design and construction support services for the Conduit 2 Trestle Upgrades Project. Commissioner Fish? Mayor, we welcome back Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer of the Water Bureau, this morning. She hasn't aged a day.
 Thank you. I appreciate that. This contract and the work that would be authorized will strengthen the resilience of Conduit No. 2 to withstand natural disasters and as part of the 2015 Conduits Rehabilitation Plan. The estimated average MWESB participation on this contract is 74,200 or a little over 25% of the total contract dollars. And Teresa Elliott is here to answer your questions.
 So the conduit, again, Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer of Portland Water. The conduit trestles, those are above ground, places along our pipeline that are above ground, either in a support system or on a bridge area.
 that so they're very vulnerable to us from natural disasters as well as potentially man-made incidences so we've been working on removing those trestles and getting them buried and reducing our risks on those for the last 10-15 years
 and this is two of our more critical ones that are still remaining. All total, we started with something like 20 of them, and so we are in the process of eliminating those as quickly as we can.
 As Commissioner said, this is a 25 percent MWESB participation for subcontracting, and it's a negotiated contract process that we did through Bureau of Procurement Services and through the normal RFP process. And I'm available to answer questions. Very good. Any questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? No.
 No one signed up. Very good. This is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, please. Item 550, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Council Crest Roof Replacement Project at an estimated cost of $550,000. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, we're joined by Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer of the Water Bureau. And by contract, she's eligible for a bonus if she testifies on three or more items in any one day at Council. Okay.
 As my colleagues may know, the existing roof of the Council Creek potable water tank and upper tank walls are severely corroded and must be replaced immediately. And Teresa Elliott is here to answer your questions.
 Teresa Elliott, chief engineer, Portland Water Bureau, for the record. So we're asking for the authorization to solicit a construction contract using the traditional low-bid process. We will be using the city's prequalification list of certified contractors that are capable of doing the work.
 and we will be going out for a contract bid. Our estimated engineer's estimate for this is about $550,000, and I'm available to answer questions. Questions, colleagues? Do you have any guesses as to when this project might be being constructed? Yes.
 We're trying to, actually yes I do. We are hoping to put this out to bid next winter and then start construction next April, April 2018 and then be complete by February of 2019. And then we've been working with the Parks Bureau and PBOT and the local residences for traffic impacts. That'll be the primary impact.
 Thank you. I did notice in my write-up that the park will be closed for five days. Does that sound right, Chris? We hope much less than five days. They hope much less than five days. Just for folks to be aware, many of our parks, in partnership with Transportation and Water Bureau, there are occasionally construction projects that have to happen. Right, right.
 I'm glad to hear that it will be later. And it may be, once we get closer to it, it may be that we don't have to close the entire park down, but that we just close off portions of it to make it safe. Thank you. And we'll know that as we get closer. How often do the roofs of these structures need to be replaced? That's a good question. I don't have that answer, and I can get back to you on that. It seems like a pretty rare occurrence. Well, this is a 50-year-old tank, and it's a metal tank. So...
 This is the first time it's been replaced. Very good. Okay, great. Thank you. Any public testimony on this item? And no one signed up? This is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony today. Next item, please.
 Item 551, authorize an agreement with Clackamas County in the amount of $210,425 to acquire a 30-acre conservation and access easement. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, I request that this matter be held over to 2 p.m. on Thursday. By agreement. You see no disagreement? By agreement with your office. Very good. We will hold that over until 2 p.m. this Thursday. Next item, please. 552.
 Authorize an agreement with Trinet for an estimated amount of $20,080 to implement the environmental services project Southwest Yamhill-Morrison to Southwest's 1st and 13th project. Is there any further council discussion or deliberation on this matter? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Udaly. Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the citywide sewer rehabilitation project. This is also a second reading. Any further deliberations on the part of the council? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 Number 554, authorize the rates and charges for water and water-related services during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018, and fix an effective date. Mayor, may I be heard before the vote? Please. I have received an inquiry, and I want to just clarify it for the sake of my colleagues. Sure.
 Yesterday, each of you got a memo from the Water Bureau advising you that the Oregon Health Authority has revoked the variants that saved us the cost of treating our water over the past five years, effective in September of this year.
 In response to that, we have scheduled a work session for June 27th for the purpose of updating the council on the action taken by the Oregon Health Authority. And we have directed the Water Bureau to come forward with all the various options that are before the council based on that action. That will include treatment options with updated cost estimates and potential rate impacts.
 But I want to be very clear, Mayor and colleagues, whatever the council decides, and it ultimately is a council decision, that decision will have no impact on rates for the period July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018. And I want to clarify that on the record. Thank you for that clarification, Commissioner. It's an important one. Any further council discussion? Thank you.
 This is a second reading. Please call the roll. Fish. Well, I want to thank the Water Bureau, Director Stewart and his team, and all the professionals who work with the council every year in developing a budget and setting the rates. I want to thank all the folks in the community who provide oversight over the utilities, including the Portland Utility Board and the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon. And I want to thank the folks who have testified and my colleagues and their staffs for scrubbing the proposal.
 This is the fourth year that we've been able to lower the rate for water services below the forecast. And I think over the last four years, if you look at the trend line, the combined rate increase has gone from about 6% to 4%.
 As the Mayor noted, the combined rate is still above the rate of inflation. However, if you lived in a number of suburban communities, you pay more for your water. We deliver clean, safe, reliable water to almost a million people in the region, and our goal is to charge a fair price and to provide good value. And I think the rates this year reflect that. Aye. Thanks, Commissioner. Eudalee. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. For your ongoing stewardship of the utilities, aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. I also want to thank Commissioner Fish, and I want to thank the Water Bureau, who have worked diligently. I mean, this is my first time as mayor to actually see how hard they work and how our utility oversight infrastructure works to keep utility rates as low as possible. And I also want to thank Commissioner Fish for his excellent stewardship on this. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 We're actually making you play catch-up today. That's sort of unusual. Item 555, revised sewer and stormwater rates, charges, and fees in accordance with the fiscal year 2017-2018 sewer user rate study. Commissioner Fish. A vote, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm sorry, this is also a second reading. Any further council discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish. Mayor and colleagues, I want to thank Director Mike Jordan and his team for all the work that they put into preparing the recommendations for council. Again, our oversight bodies, the public, my colleagues and their staff for scrubbing those recommendations. And, Mayor, I want to acknowledge in the budget that you proposed, you have –
 authorized the Bureau to make some additional investments over the next 10 years. And Director Jordan has proposed a very compelling vision over the next 10 years, which is to get as close to 100 percent sustainability in the condition of our assets as possible, with the ultimate goal, and it's an audacious goal, of becoming the first utility of its kind in the country with a pay-as-you-go system for maintaining its assets. Okay.
 Now, we are different than other bureaus in that we have dedicated revenue through the rates. And if PBOT and Parks had dedicated revenue, they would be in a different situation in terms of the condition of their assets. But we're close to 70% good or better condition of assets because of the generosity of our rate payers. And the director has laid out a vision at least for BES to get close to 100%. And I think that's a worthy goal, and I thank you for your support on that. Aye.
 Eudaly. Aye. Prince. Commissioner Fisher, I remember when these two votes were amongst our most controversial and both chambers would be stacked with people yelling at us for that reason. So, again, I very much appreciate what you're doing and also very much support having 100% maintenance ongoing. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, Commissioner. Next item, please. Thank you.
 5.56, revised residential solid waste and recycling collection rates and charges, effective July 1, 2017. This is a second reading. Any further council discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Thank you.
 Fritz? Well, to recap, after many years of being completely stable and not increasing it, this increase is less than 1%. So thanks very much, Mayor, to your team in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for their work on this. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Code's amended. Next item. Thank you.
 557, authorize $100,000 for the establishment of the Portland in the Streets Community Grant Program to award grants through a competitive process for the period of July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019. So, Dan, Commissioner Saltzman had to leave, but he asked me if I would read his opening remarks, so I'd like to do that. Okay.
 I'm proud to bring forward this exciting new community grants program developed for new and creative projects that encourage transportation safety in our neighborhoods throughout the city. The Portland Bureau of Transportation will allocate $100,000 to the competitive grant process. Thank you.
 Irene Schofferman public involvement coordinator for the Portland Bureau of Transportation is here to talk more about the program and is available to answer any questions. Thank you. Thank you. And
 And good morning. As introduced, my name is Irene Chwafferman. I'm the Public Involvement Coordinator for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm excited to be here today to introduce and seek your support for the Portland in the Streets Community Grant Program. As mentioned, this grant program will distribute $100,000 in grants, up to $20,000 each through a competitive process this summer.
 We've provided exhibit A, which is the grant handbook and application packet. And I wanted to quickly go through some of the program goals and the purpose.
 So the goals of this program are to invest in small-scale community-driven projects focused on transportation safety, equity, innovation, and placemaking, to engage communities historically underrepresented in and underserved by PBOP programming, including but not limited to communities of color, immigrant and refugee communities, low-income individuals and families, youth, people with disabilities, gay, lesbian, bi, and transgendered people.
 We also seek to supplement PBOT's existing priorities and capital projects, to generate new and innovative ideas for PBOT to consider in the long term, and to decrease policy and process barriers to idea implementation, and lastly to strengthen collaboration between PBOT and community partners by providing hands-on technical support during the project implementation process. The program priorities will include events in the streets,
 creative community infrastructure, innovative community engagement, expanding the urban trails network, and small-scale transportation and safety projects. And we see this as an extension and a supplement to our livable street strategy, Vision Zero, and other priorities that our bureau is currently implementing.
 We've included in the application other examples and sample budget amounts of the grants or the projects that we seek to support. But really we're looking for a community to bring us any ideas that they have and we'll work with them to help see them to fruition.
 We are seeking, we are really seeing this as an opportunity to expand and strengthen our public involvement with community members. And we worked with members of our Budget and Bureau Advisory Committee to develop what you see before you today. We have also consulted with other city bureaus who have current or previous grant programs, including ONI, BES, and Portland Parks and Recreation.
 What you'll see in here is that we've included a strong equity focus. Our team will be focusing on outreach in diverse communities, will host at least two community information sessions, and provide staff and consultant technical assistance during the planning and implementation period of the program. Thank you.
 Our goal is to have all grantee projects implemented by the end of 2018, and we look forward to reporting back on all of the program's success. So thank you in advance for your support. Thank you, Irene. Commissioner Fritz. I note that both the ordinance and the financial statement says that it's coming into the next year's budget. What's the source of the $100,000? You have someone from our budget team who can give you the best answer. Thank you.
 Good morning. Ken Kinoshita, Group of Commons Manager. The source of the revenue is our general transportation revenue. So basically gas tax revenue? Yeah, gas tax and parking revenues. Great. Well, thank you very much. I'll support it. Very good. Commissioner Udaly. What's the URL for this grant so I can send people to it?
 It will be a city URL, so we will announce it formally by the end of this week. So we'll be sending out a community, and we'll make sure that all your offices have that information. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you. Can commissioners apply for a grant? Any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? Does the answer to that question determine your vote on this matter, Commissioner? Yes.
 No one signed up. Very good. This is a non-emergency first reading. We'll move to second reading. Thank you. It looks really exciting. Thank you, Irene. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next item, please. 558, revised transportation fees, rates, and charges for fiscal year 2017 to 18 and fixed and effective rates.
 Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The rates, fees, and charges are adopted. Next item, please. 559. Vacate a portion of Northeast Cooch Street east of Northeast 3rd Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Any further council deliberations? Again, this is the second reading. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz.
 Prince. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And just for people watching, we've already had deliberations, staff testimony and public testimony and all of these items that we're just calling the roll on for second reading. Next item, please.
 560, approved fiscal year 2017-18, cost of living adjustments to pay rates for nonrepresented classifications and elected officials. Specify the effect upon employees and the classifications involved and provide for payment. Good morning, Elizabeth. Good morning. You can state your name for the record, please. My name is Elizabeth Nunes. I'm the Classification and Compensation Manager in the Bureau of Human Resources. Okay.
 And I have to say I'm really glad I didn't follow up on the children's presentations because I was very humbled. I am here to present to you an ordinance to approve fiscal year 2017 to 2018 cost of living adjustment to nonrepresented classifications and for elected officials. The amount is 2.2% this year.
 And just to know the cost distribution, for the fiscal year, it's a total of $3,816,000, with $1.8 million of it coming out of the general fund, and then the remaining $2-plus million from the non-general fund bureaus. Any questions? Thank you. I don't think there are. So this moves to a second reading. Okay.
 And there was no sign up for testimony. So I would like to note that my pay has finally become more per hour than it was when I was working at OHSU. So that is a significant milestone for me, although I would have to say that per hour I think I'm still making about minimum wage. But thank you very much. Congratulations for that. Yeah, congratulations. Okay, can you call the next item? Thank you.
 5.61, authorize revenue bonds in an amount sufficient to provide not more than $20 million to finance space in a project to be located on Southwest 4th Avenue and Southwest Montgomery Street. Vote over. Okay. Second reading. Fish. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Good call. Great report. Next item, please. Next is 5.61, authorize.
 Dash one, it's accept bid of Paul Brothers, Inc. for the Spring Garden Park Development Project. I'm sorry, I have a question. So 560 was a non-emergency first reading. Why are we voting on it? You voted on 561. Oh, that was 561. Yeah. Thank you. So you're on 5611? Correct. Very good. That's right. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Morning. Thanks, Commissioner, for doing a great job. Thank you.
 Got way ahead of me. She was trying to make it to the end. Fastest gavel in the way. Yeah. Thank you. Well, thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Could you do me a favor and just pull the mic a little bit closer and name for the record? Okay. Awesome, thanks. My name is Lauren McGuire. I'm the Development Program Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. With me is Travis Rubal. Hi.
 the Capital Projects Manager 3 on the project, who's working to bring this to fruition, as well as Larry Blatt from the procurement and Andrew Abbey, our PBI Capital Project Manager 3.
 We're here today to accept the bid and to give you a brief presentation. We're going to be accepting the bid from Paul Brothers for the Spring Garden Park construction for $3.1 million. We will also give you a brief overview of the project, and then we'll be able to answer any questions that you have on the project. The rendering that you're looking at shows Spring Garden Park, which is located between Southwest Spring Garden –
 to the north or top in Southwest Dolph Court to the south or the bottom. Spring Garden Park project purpose is to further develop the existing park with a new playground splash pad and loo in the area towards the bottom left of the image. Also a picnic shelter and picnic area with contemplative garden toward the bottom right of the image. We've got ADA accessible connections winding through the park from Southwest Dolph Court
 to Southwest Spring Garden. We've also got a meadow with hillside plantings that will provide habitat. And we've got a gathering area toward the top of the image by the stream daylighting facility. And then lighting and street frontage improvements. The primary goals of the park...
 design are to maintain it and enhance the existing character of the park with its broad open areas, as well as to provide recreational opportunities with facilities that are consistent with those of our other neighborhood parks, including pedestrian connectivity in the neighborhood, and to protect the natural resource areas. In 2017, we completed 12 months of public engagement process that included four public meetings and five project advisory committee meetings.
 We received great feedback from everyone about the spring garden design. We also heard that there was a need for increased pedestrian access through the park, which we've accommodated. As part of the park development process, we also learned that PPOT would require street frontage improvements. So we've been working with Andrew on a local improvement district for those improvements. He'll tell you a little bit about that.
 The frontage improvements at the park include a dedication of property of seven feet on Spring Garden and also on Dolph Court, and this will allow the construction of sidewalks, stormwater facilities, and also street trees. So, again, to review, we're here today to accept the bid from Paul Brothers for the Spring Garden Park construction and LID street improvements for $3,100,000.
 $6.59 and $0.32. This includes the local improvement district costs as well. The bids came in a little bit higher than we anticipated from the engineer's estimate, which was $2.75 million. This construction bid cost is about 11% over what we had estimated. We think they're higher because of the current construction boom, because of the time of year of the bid, because of the steep topography we're at.
 With our construction access difficulties, the high water table we have and the higher than normal pricing that we're seeing. We're working on value engineering, changing some of the materials, and deleting a few of the items to deliver a park for the funding appropriated.
 In closing, thank you for allowing us to present on the Spring Garden Park. And at this time, Larry will talk about the procurement, and then Andrew, followed by Andrew, to talk about the local improvement district. And Travis is here to answer any questions. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. Morning. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Paul Brothers. The engineer's estimate on this project was $2.75 million with a confidence level of moderate. On April 6, 2017, four bids were received, and Paul Brothers is the low bidder at $3,100,659.32.
 which is 11.3% over the estimate. Portland Parks Recreation conducted a bid analysis and determined that there were three primary factors that contributed to the increase in cost, construction site access issues, high labor demand in the local market, and the timing of the bid, which is at the same time as many other public agencies and private companies are in the construction market.
 The city put forward an aspirational goal for DMWESB subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction costs for the project,
 Paul Brothers identified nine divisions of work for DMWESB-certified firm participation, with subcontracting participation at 28.36%, with work being performed in concrete, hydro-seeding, masonry, metal fabrication, play surface installation, fencing, trucking, flagging, and survey.
 Paul Brothers is a certified emerging small business, so the combined prime and subcontractor participation in this project is 91.2%. It probably should be noted that Paul Brothers could self-perform a significant portion of the subcontracted work, but they have chosen to spread the wealth in support of the city's programs and goals. Any questions? I'm Andrew Abbey. I'm the city's LID administrator. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'm Andrew Abbey. I'm the city's LID administrator. So when I first started working with parks, they had a requirement, as Lauren mentioned, to build sidewalks along the frontage of Spring Garden Park. We didn't think it made a lot of sense to build an island of sidewalks that didn't connect to anything.
 So we did some out, PBOT and Parks did some joint outreach to the community and we formed a local improvement district to build not only sidewalk improvements but also stormwater improvements, particularly on Dolph Court between the park and Southwest 30th Avenue. Those are the multifamily apartment units along that street would have pedestrian access both to the park to the west and also to transit and shopping to the east.
 And in addition to that, we're going to be doing some pavement restoration on Southwest Dolph Court. So of the LID amount, we formed an LID with $725,000 in funding from parks and $547,552 from private property owners for a total amount of $1,272,000.
 clarify the bid that came in. The street portion of the bid actually came in pretty favorable. We estimated at LID formation a construction amount of $583,000.00.
 And the street portion of the bid came in at $640,000, but we actually had built in some betterments into the project, such as some additional pavement work. So from PBOT's point of view, we actually landed really close to the original budget for the street improvements.
 And I really wanted to recognize my colleagues in PBOT. They've done a really exceptional job of designing this project in a difficult area with difficult stormwater requirements and great issues. And they've done a really good job of...
 rising to the challenge. And then finally I just wanted to note that I received a written request yesterday from a property owner to the west of Spring Garden Park on Southwest Spring Garden Street to join the LID. So I will be bringing an amendment to the LID to council on June 28th
 to expand the LIDU boundary and build some additional 111 feet of street improvements on Southwest Spring Garden Street that will inch us ever closer to having east-west pedestrian connection to Southwest Capital Highway where PBOT's going to be doing a major project in the not-too-distant future. So look for that on June 28th with a second reading on July 5th. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. You're just here to answer questions. Yes, if you have any technical questions regarding the park development, my name is Travis Rubel. I'm the capital project manager, and I'd be happy to answer any that you might have. Great. I just have one question, and it's sort of a hypothetical. Well, it's not hypothetical. I guess it's just sort of a process-y question.
 So we are now, as you said, competing with other public institutions that are looking for the same expertise. We're obviously competing with the private sector for contracting and labor. I'm certainly seeing this in the housing market where the cost of construction has been escalating pretty rapidly. How do you weigh decisions about expediency decisions
 against rising costs? In other words, is there a point at which the inflation in the construction market might dictate to us that we actually hold off on certain capital construction projects until a time when the cost of construction is more stable, or is it more important to be online quickly? How do you weigh those different factors? Sure.
 Can I take a shot at it? Sure, absolutely. We have a lot of other projects in the pipeline, so it's not like we're doing everything now at the height of the market. That's one of the good things about having system development charges, which is funding this particular project. We know that there are going to be many others coming down the line. We have a certain amount of parks staffing expertise, so they are working at maximum capacity.
 which we want them to, thank you very much. And we know that there will be work in a few years' time as well. Very good. I think if we could figure out when that time frame will be, Mayor, we could all retire very, very early. But figuring out that timing is a significant issue, and projects get budgeted and time planned, and at some point you have to pull the trigger. Or you say no, and you do. You put it off, and then...
 What are the downsides? And did you guess right? And our process in parks, if we leave it too long, then we have to go back and look at the plan for the park as well. So I know Mayor Hales used to say that when he took office in 2013, the only cranes in the sky were on public projects. And, you know, obviously over the recession, Mayor Adams said,
 stimulus money from the federal government and the only projects being done with the public ones. So I do recognize the wisdom of your question and also think that the approach we're taking is the wise one. Very good. I'm hearing a high level of confidence from the team as well on this and I appreciate that. Thank you. Okay. And by the way, I guess it's not insignificant that the community has been highly engaged in this and they are very much looking forward to their new park. Looks great.
 Thank you. Any further questions or conversations on this? Nobody wants to testify. Great. Any public testimony? No one signed up. So I move the report. If I may, I had one matter to bring up, and maybe this is the wrong matter. Sure, technically. I was informed by council. Oh, okay. I'm seeing the thumbs up from the council clerk. I had been informed about that.
 The matter of a bid amount being corrected. It was correct. It was corrected. Okay. Great. So no amendments required. No. That's your job, so you're not a problem at all. So Commissioner Fritz moves, and I'm sorry, who's seconded? Commissioner Udaly second. Please call the roll. Fish. Nice report, and congratulations. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz? This is especially satisfying to me. I used to live on Dolph Court when we first moved to Portland, and Jim Francisconi, Commissioner Francisconi, was the one who bought this from Portland Public Schools. There was one year where, under Mayor Vera Katz, money was just given to the schools, and then Jim Francisconi said, no, wait a minute, you've got a lot of properties. Let's buy them. So there's this one in Multnomah Neighbourhood Association. It's the Kerr property, which is 10 acres in West Portland Park.
 Thanks very much. You mentioned the Neighbourhood Association. Thanks to the Multnomah Neighbourhood Association, as usual, there was not unanimity on the direction to go. So thank you for the public involvement staff who worked through some challenging issues.
 Thanks very much to the Friends of Spring Garden and the advisory committee on this particular project. Laurie in particular has worked extremely hard. And as I found when trying to get new parks done in southwest Portland, by the time you actually get it done, your children are almost in college. So it does become a labor of love for the community rather than for one that particularly benefits folks.
 I'm excited about this one. It's just up the hill from the Headwaters Senior affordable housing complex that was developed several years ago. It's within walking distance and with the new sidewalks, easy walking distance from Barber Boulevard and when Bus Rapid Transit or light rail comes on Barber. I think this is going to be another project where we put the park in first and then the density can be added because we've got the amenities so I'm very excited about that.
 And you mentioned about Capitol Highway as well. Yes, it's sad when there's only a few streets in the entire neighborhood association that actually have sidewalks. And I know that you're working on that, Andrew, and I appreciate all your work on it. Thank you very much to my park staff, to Christina Nieves and Pooja Bhatt, and my chief of staff, Tim Crail. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you, Commissioner, and thanks to the Parks Bureau, and thank you for all of your hard work. And congratulations to the community. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Thank you. Next time. Thank you.
 Item 562, approved rental rehabilitation conditional grant product guidelines. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. So just quick. All right. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, good morning, commissioners as well. My name is Andrea Mathiason with the Portland Housing Bureau. And I had anticipated having Katrina Holland from the Community Alliance of Tenants and John Mulvey, co-chair of the East Portland Action Plan Housing Subcommittee here next to me. But this was a very efficient council agenda today. So they may come in late or we may just miss them completely. Thank you.
 Today you have in front of you the ordinance to approve the Rental Rehabilitation Pilot Program for East Portland and all of the related documents that go into rolling out that pilot program.
 The purpose of the pilot is to prevent displacement of vulnerable families living in East Portland rental units and encourage property owners to address habitability concerns that may be impacting or exacerbating the health of those families and also to maintain affordable rents
 for those households in order to stabilize them.
 The program requirements for the program, and you've got a copy of those current proposed program guidelines in your packet, but just to provide a summary overview of the ones that you have in detail. Unit eligibility for the program is required for privately owned rental properties, so these are not publicly owned or nonprofit partner-owned regulated units, but privately owned housing stock.
 located in East Portland and then occupied by tenants below 60% of area median income. We've got some exceptions to that in order to accommodate households that might be living in a handful of individual units in properties up to 80% area median income.
 Eligible expenses would include addressing identified code violations, unidentified potential code violations, as well as issues such as lead-based paint, asbestos, mold, things that we know can impact health of occupants, as well as weatherization upgrades that might be needed.
 Financing requirements for property owners that are engaging in the program would include agreeing to regulate the rents for a period of 10 years affordable to households at 60% of AMI.
 Annual reporting to the Portland Housing Bureau with regard to the income of the tenant occupants and the rents being charged, ongoing physical maintenance on the condition of the properties, and then the voluntary use of tenant protection requirements such as offering 12-month leases, adequate tenant notices, only termination of leases for cause. And again, you've got that detail in your packet at this point, I believe. Okay.
 This is a pilot program for 1718 that's being proposed. And so in an effort to move that forward expeditiously and learn as many lessons as we can through that pilot program implementation, we are going to work with a program administrator. Inhabit is a nonprofit organization in town doing some of this work currently.
 They will help both tenants and property owners work through the requirements of the program. One of the things that we have heard from similar programs is that
 Getting tenants to voluntarily provide income information in that certified way the program will require can be a barrier if there are language challenges. And so having a community-based organization that can work with the tenants and the landlords can help address that issue better.
 We are proposing to work closely with the Multnomah County Weatherization Program. And the rationale for this proposal is that it will help to leverage resources in an attempt to enroll as many units as possible. It will also maximize our enforcement capabilities because they will have similar enforcement mechanisms in place.
 And it will also allow us to jointly use a skilled minority contractor pool as well. We also anticipate, in addition to referrals from the Multnomah County Weatherization Program, referrals from the Code Inspections team at the Bureau of Development Services, and also from community partners such as CAT or other social service organizations in East Portland, working with tenants living in substandard housing.
 One of the things that we do know is that tenants are frequently reluctant to engage the code enforcement process for fear of retaliatory evictions. And so if we can hear from those tenants about the properties that they are living in and
 and our program administrator in Habit can approach property owners proactively with a carrot as opposed to a stick in some cases. We anticipate 30 to 50 units will be assisted through this pilot in this first round in 17-18 with the funding that's been budgeted. And I see here that John Mulvey has joined me, so I'm going to invite him also to provide some words.
 Hi. I heard you were a little ahead of schedule, so I ran right over, so I apologize. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. My name is John Mulvey. I am a co-chair of the East Portland Action Plan Housing Subcommittee, and I really appreciate the chance to come in and talk to you about this program. East Portland...
 as you know, is a lot of things. It's a beautiful, diverse, and engaged community. It's also a place that's absorbed almost half of the Portland population growth over the last decade. It's a place that is witnessing some of the city's highest rates of rent increases. It's a place that is home to a disproportionate share of Portlanders who are under 18.
 It's a place that's seen chronic underinvestment in city housing dollars. And that's not past tense. I want you to be aware that's ongoing. It's also...
 a place that has a disproportionate share of the city's substandard housing, rental housing in particular. And that's based on Portland Housing Bureau data. And it's kind of remarkable. I know you're all long-term Portlanders, so it probably doesn't surprise you to know that 20 years ago that wasn't true. East Portland was more or less typical for the rest of the city, so...
 So it's been disinvestment in recent decades that's led to this problem. And that's not necessarily city disinvestment, although that's part of it. Private disinvestment has been part of it too. So just to understand, East Portlanders right now are some of the most vulnerable renters in the city. They're right in the crosshairs of the housing crisis that we've been seeing. And we know from past experience that some of the...
 issues play out a little differently in East Portland than they do in some of the other areas of town. It's just historically got a different sort of flavor. It's developed differently, and the community of people there is a little different. So EPAP's basic
 sort of functioning reality is that we're always coming to you folks and trying to persuade you about why our problems are unique and they don't necessarily fit with some of the solutions that are being dealt with citywide. So I want to talk to you about how we got here. EPAP's housing subcommittee worked really closely with the housing bureau.
 We have excellent relationships with the staffers there. And we've been working on anti-displacement issues for a number of years now. And about two years ago, we had a pretty remarkable gathering at the David Douglas High School cafeteria.
 We had more than 200 people who came in on a kind of a sweltering Saturday afternoon to talk about housing. And remarkably, we had more than 90% of the participants whose first language was not English.
 And that's true. We were able to quantify that. We had something like, I believe, 10 different language translators on hand.
 I know you all, as politicians, you've been to or hosted public forums that somehow sort of get hijacked a little bit. Maybe it's even happened in this room. I'm not sure. But this was an interesting event because I kind of came in and I felt a little...
 a little like the joke was on me a little bit, because I walked in there having prepared to give a sort of talk on things like inclusionary housing and no net loss housing policies.
 And really the group that showed up, they wanted to talk about what was happening to them. And so our agenda sort of went out the window and it turned into an opportunity for people who don't normally get to speak up to kind of share how housing was impacting them.
 And one of the things that we heard loud and clear, especially among immigrant communities, was their fear of reporting code violations.
 to the city or to anybody else. Oftentimes, people are living in overcrowded conditions, and they don't really have a remedy for that. There's no other place they can move to that they can live in a more appropriate setting. So hearing from these people...
 And the impassioned stories that they shared with us that afternoon has really driven a lot of what our housing committee has been working on in the two years since then. One of the things that we sat down immediately to get to work on was, what can we do about the quality of the housing that is being rented in East Portland?
 And as I said, we have a great relationship with the Housing Bureau, and Kurt Krieger joined us for that meeting as well as others. And we began working on a program where we could help landlords rehabilitate these rental units if there's a unit that has a leaky roof or a mold problem or a cracked foundation problem
 We would help finance them to bring that up to speed. And in return, we would insist on guarantees of affordability.
 This program isn't going to solve the problem, but I think we all realize that we need a whole menu of solutions to solve the problem. And so I think I'll leave it there and let Andrea sort of get into the details of the program, if she hasn't already, which she may have.
 But I just wanted to let you know that this is something that we've been collaborating with the Housing Bureau for the last two years as a specific remedy to a particular problem that's in East Portland. And we hope that you'll see fit to support it. Thank you very much. And that was a very helpful, also historical and contextual perspective. So thank you for that. Commissioner Udailey and then Commissioner Fish.
 Thank you for the presentation. I am generally supported of the rental rehabilitation pilot project. I have a few questions and concerns. I mean, number one, we know that hundreds and possibly thousands of low-income renters in Portland are living in substandard conditions. So anything we can do to improve their situation is great. I am...
 a little bit resident reticent reticent, um, uh, about the fact that we'll be spending our public dollars and benefiting private landlords. So I'm glad to see that there are some pretty, uh, aggressive financing requirements. And I just want to be clear if they do violate the agreement, uh,
 It says that we'll impose penalties and record a lien against the property. Is that equal to our investment or maybe a prorated amount, depending on what we got out of the deal? How will that work? Okay.
 Thank you for the question, Commissioner Udaly. I think that's a great question. And at this point in time, we have modeled our enforcement mechanisms off those of, as I was mentioning earlier, the Multnomah County Weatherization Program, so we can kind of maximize our compliance efforts. Thank you.
 If the city does not receive the full 10-year benefit of the regulated units at any point in time, we would require the property owner to pay back the full amount of the investment. We are not anticipating prorating of repayment amount. And I do believe there is the appetite to consider penalties so that this is not just a –
 interest-free loan. We're balancing that against our desire to also maximize property owner participation in the program, and so that would be one consideration in terms of contemplating additional penalties for noncompliance. Great. And do you anticipate that in general we would be getting
 Well, I mean, what we're getting back is a tenant living in safer conditions who's not going to be cost burdened or displaced. I don't know how you place a value on that, but will we roughly get back what we're putting in over this period of 10 years as far as the rental, the kind of
 semi-permanent rental reduction. Does that make sense? Like, if we spend $50,000 to rehab a unit, is there a dollar amount you're thinking we're going to get back in benefit? I did some back-of-the-knack math in anticipation of a question along these lines. And so if you look at the current proposed per-unit investment cap is $25,000 per unit. $25,000.
 If you look at that as a per unit per month subsidy, it would be approximately $200 per month, right? And so that would be the comparable amount of rent assistance, for example, that would need to be invested in order to achieve those rents. Okay. My last question. Okay.
 I'm a little concerned about the potential for displacing tenants who are in these improved units who...
 rise above 60% MFI. Right now, market rate rents are affordable to people earning 120% and above. 60% is a fairly low threshold. And if there's a reduction in household size or a raise or a change in jobs, it bumps those people up above 60%, but still not to a level where they can afford market rate housing rents.
 I'm worried about the consequences of that. So how would we deal with that? And these program guidelines, as John was mentioning, were put into place for your consideration, right?
 Primarily through that anti-displacement lens, first and foremost. And so what's on the table, and I believe it's actually included in the current program guidelines, is that incomes are allowed to rise in place. This is an anti-displacement program, and so people would not be impacted necessarily by rising incomes in that way. Okay. I mean, they have to...
 provide proof of income every year so I'm assuming there's some trigger I just wanted to know if there was going to be flexibility or special considerations um in an event like I've described in terms of a reduction in family size but I just maybe take a run around it in a different way um
 Are you saying that if it starts off that the property qualifies because the tenant is below 60%, as long as it's the same tenant who's now making 80% or 100%, they would not be displaced? Is that what you're asking, Commissioner? It's not what I'm asking, but it's a potential answer. Okay.
 So a collective response would be that we are requiring annual income information so that we can tell if occupants have changed. The program would require initial incomes changed.
 coming in to be below 60% of AMI. Existing tenants who would remain there, hopefully for the full 10 years and longer, would not be penalized for their incomes rising in place. I think, in fairness to the property owners, what we would need to consider would be how those rents would be allowed, if they were supported, to be increased as tenant incomes increased.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fish? Andrea, thanks for your excellent presentation, and I want to drill down on some of the other details. So why did we settle on a 10-year period for the regulatory agreement?
 It seemed to equate with the level of investment in terms of $25,000 per unit. The original request for budget for this program actually proposed a lower cost per unit. Perhaps it was $15,000. I actually can't recall.
 But in conversations with industry professionals, they all voiced the same opinion that the cost per unit needed to be higher in order to adequately address conditions, structural roofs, whatnot, particularly in larger multifamily properties. And so as we moved closer to the $25,000 per unit,
 A 10-year affordability period seemed to be reasonable for the property owners, which is why you have the code change proposed in front of you for this program, only the reduction from 60 years to 10 years for these resources. Thank you. Second question is, you've built in some tenant protections, but it says specifically that rents may not be increased permanently.
 during the first 12 months, but there doesn't seem to be any kind of protection against future rent increases. So what are the protections from future rent increases beyond year one? So beyond year one, what we would be looking at is an expectation for the rents to remain affordable, which would be 30% of a household's income for a family, an individual household, at 60% AMI or below.
 And I don't have those rents in front of me at my fingertips. I can get them for you if you'd like. So I don't quite understand how we're going to administer that. If it was a Section 8 voucher, then there is a subsidy that the government provides to cover the difference. But every tenant would be different and unique. Right.
 And I don't also want us to create a perverse incentive to have a landlord displace someone to get a, quote-unquote, better tenant that allows them to get a higher rent. So, Kurt, we may want to take a look at that. I'm less clear about that, how that works, both in terms of does it meet our goal and is it administratively enforceable? Because I don't want an undue burden on them.
 on Andrea and her team. The eligible expenditures include energy efficiency, but it doesn't create a hierarchy of investment priorities. And it seems to me that the first priority – I mean, I'm all for energy efficiency, but the first priority should be bringing a unit up to code, getting rid of the mold in the bathroom, making sure there's a working kitchen, those kinds of things, getting the lead paint out of the family room, etc.
 As it's currently structured, though, it doesn't appear that there is a hierarchy. And so could we create a hierarchy, or did you just choose not to do that? We absolutely should have and will create a hierarchy. So as we have been working with Enhabit, what we've talked about is for properties who have identified code violations, those need to be addressed first first.
 For properties that have potential code violations, clearly those will be addressed. And so what they will be using to assess in terms of property condition to determine those repair needs is actually a Bureau of Development Services Title 29 checklist.
 And so they'll be going through that as a tool to ensure compliance with code requirements around habitability. Well, on that point, the guidelines state that assisted properties may be subject to annual housing maintenance inspections.
 And I wonder whether we shouldn't make that mandatory, at least in the first year or two. My hope and expectation is that for $25,000 and a regulatory agreement, we're able to actually ensure that the unit comes up to code. And I think from an optics point of view, it would look terrible for the city to put $25,000 into a unit that isn't habitable.
 So, sir? Can I speak to that? This is something that we've talked about in a fair amount of detail, and actually I think it goes to Commissioner Udali's point about
 reticence at lending money to, let's say, bad landlords. We looked really closely at that question, and I think the thing that persuaded me was, first of all, I don't think bad landlords are going to participate in a program like this. We...
 In addition to all of our low-income renter members at EPAP, we have a lot of small-scale landlords too. I just want to clarify, I did not say bad landlords. I said private property owners. Okay.
 Okay, well fair enough. And we had some of the same concerns. The thing is that this program I think will help bring those rental units into compliance. We don't have an accurate picture of the amount of real code violations that are taking place out there. And I think
 Personally, I would love to see the city take a more active role. I think this project is one piece of identifying the code violations that we know are there but aren't reported.
 Well, and I appreciate that, and I'm looking at this. I'm agnostic as to who the owner is and just looking at through the lens of the family living in the unit. And if we're investing $25,000, I think we ought to make sure that there's a full inspection at the front end to determine the extent of code violations. The money should be tailored to address them, and there should be a minimum threshold of habitability that justifies our investment.
 Otherwise, we're in the situation of investing in properties where people still are living in substandard conditions. And my guess is that once we've put the money in, we're almost on the hook for making sure that the units are habitable. So I flag that as an issue. The proposal before us contemplates –
 that either the director or the commissioner in charge effectively can make all the decisions about where to invest. And it doesn't because the threshold is up to a half million, the director, up to a million, the commissioner, above a million, it would come to council. But we're only talking about it. We're talking about initial investment of less than a million dollars. So I'm comfortable with that as long as the council gets an annual report. Are you contemplating an annual report to council? Yes.
 I believe that we are anticipating a report back to council as soon as these funds are committed so that you can have a sense of how this pilot program achieved its outcomes so that you can make future funding considerations. Yeah, and, you know, we've been spoiled by the Housing Bureau in that annually you –
 You come before us on all the regulated units and tell us whether people are no longer eligible to be on the program, and you kick them off, and that's tax abatements and other things.
 This may have the same flavor because there's a whole bunch of triggers in here about unapproved sale, unapproved transfer, other changes that the Bureau does not agree to, which then triggers the callback provision where you recapture the money. But I think if we're going to have such deference to administrative decision-making, I think we need robust reporting back to counsel at the end of June.
 at the end of the year. And let me just summarize my concerns. I agree with Commissioner Udaly. We want to make sure that existing tenants don't perversely get displaced because they happen to see their incomes go up. I think you've answered that, that the incumbent tenants stay there even during the 10-year period if their incomes grow.
 I want to make sure we're not creating a perverse incentive to displace someone and bring in a different tenant in order to give the landlord the opportunity to charge higher rents. And that, it seems to me, is a function of who is the tenant based on the way you're calculating this. And I respectfully think that from a regulatory point of view,
 we don't have the tools to really enforce that. I think we ought to think long and hard about whether we want to act like a Section 8 voucher administrator without all the resources. The third is I think it's important that we create a hierarchy of uses. And, again, for this particular program, energy efficiency would not be my highest priority. Habitability would be energy efficiency is icing on the cake.
 And then I would encourage the director and the commissioner in charge, since they're delegated authority to award the monies, that you think about –
 If not a competitive process, what are the requirements so we make sure we're getting the very best projects and the best return on public investment? At the end of the day, this pilot is going to tell us whether this works for 30 to 50 households. We're touching a very light touch. And it actually may turn out that other tools we have give us a better bang for the buck. We'll be able to compare that. And I'm open to that conversation because $25,000 a unit versus –
 the bond money purchasing a property for the long term or a tax abatement that might accomplish a similar goal. We'll find out whether this is the most efficient use of scarce resources. But I think it's very important that we reward landlords that, as part of this, are bringing their units up to habitability and it's not just a half measure. Okay.
 Very good. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Just on the numbers again, Gordon Salazar and my staff pointed out in the financials, in the 16-17 budget, there's $470,000. So you haven't spent any of that yet? That is correct. We are looking at this pilot to utilize 17-18 budget resources. Well, no. You've got $470,000.
 $470,000 in the 2016-2017 budget. So none of that has gone out the door yet. That is correct. And then the budget for the next fiscal year is $1,400,000 about. Yes.
 So there was a discrepancy in the impact statement that was submitted prior to the adopted budget. So at this point in time, in the 17-18 adopted budget, that impact statement should actually read, I believe, $578,000 in general fund is available for this pilot program. Wow.
 The impact statement was submitted to the mayor's office back in, before the adopted budget. So we're not funding this program at 1.4 in the next? I honestly don't remember. We can get that information to you. Yeah, it's a non-emergency. Unless Director Krieger recalls. We'll have to check back.
 Yeah, and since it's not an emergency, we can get that information next week. Also, there's the issue of the area median income. Is this specific to the area? Because when we were looking at Gateway, median income there, market rate there is about 80% MFI for somewhere else. Yes.
 So is it specific to the area? No, unfortunately it is the HUD AMI. So the documents that you have in your packets actually have the 2016 numbers, which are in the process of being updated for 2017, but it is not specific to East Portland. So if we're trying to get something that's more specific to East Portland, maybe that's not the right number?
 I agree with that concern, absolutely. We've seen other programs like, for instance, inclusionary housing, which really only benefits people at 60, in some cases 60, in most cases 80%, as something that really has little value in preventing displacement in East Portland because, as you say, where the rents are. When I raised that concern, as Matthew Schaubold here, when I asked him about that, he said, well...
 When the rents increase in Portland, then it'll start to have a greater impact, which is a very frustrating answer. It's correct, but it's a frustrating answer because I would hate to see rents reach that point before we start seeing. So if you're wondering whether I would support a lower MFI, I certainly would. Well, since this has been characterized as a pilot project, it might be...
 something to think about that we actually make it to pilot projects in a specific area to see can we help the areas that are most plagued by rental units that are not up to code rather than making it citywide where the benefit is going to be maybe more in St. John's than it would be in East Portland. There's just something to think about there.
 Good. I think these are all extremely helpful revisions. And Director Krieger is here diligently taking notes. If I might just finish. Please, Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Eudaly. To the issue of how do you prioritize.
 I would be concerned that the first in asking for money with their hands out would be the people who are already connected. And what kind of an outreach program are we going to do so that the kinds of folks who are at your community meeting know that they can get their landlord, who also might not speak English as a first language, to come in? So that, again, as a pilot, let's see how we can target it in the way that we've done, for instance, on interstate URA numbers. Thank you.
 And we are absolutely considering how, within a relatively short pilot program timeline, we can both demonstrate outcomes and have a robust enrollment process to identify properties where the most vulnerable tenants might be housed. I just wanted to kind of piggyback on what Commissioner Fish raised earlier. I also have a concern about the
 annual rent increases. I think that we need to look hard both at the qualifying income in consideration of lower incomes and lower rents in East Portland and what we tie that annual rent increase to. I think tying it to the actual tenant could be problematic. I'd suggest looking at, honestly, the...
 Well, one of the reasons is we know that we have extremely low-income renters paying 60%, 70%, 80% of their income. So they're already going to be well beyond that 30%. And in that 10-year period, they may never catch up because the Social Security check is less than $12,000 a year. So I'm wondering if we should be looking at a lower MFI in consideration of the...
 area and then tying the annual rent increases to 30% of that MFI instead of basing it on tenant income. Thank you. Commissioner, if I can speak to that. Remember, these are privately owned units. And so...
 You won't find anyone who's more concerned with low-income renters than I am, but you also have to recognize that this is a voluntary program, and if we're requiring, say, 30% MFI rents, are we going to get anyone who's interested on those terms? Well, as Commissioner Fritz, I think, mentioned,
 maybe we could prioritize. Maybe we could find the, you know, most vulnerable, lowest income, lowest rent, worst condition and start, and start from there. Because if we're doing this in a neighborhood where rents are,
 80% of MFI and our threshold is 60. I mean, I would have qualified for that last year. I know that I'm not anywhere near or I wasn't anywhere near to being among the most burdened and vulnerable renter. Yeah.
 Well, I know you, and I don't think you'd tolerate a moldy bathroom or a leaky roof either. John, I have lived in substandard housing for a decade in very dangerous conditions in fear of retaliation from my landlord. And thankfully, I no longer have to worry about that. But as feisty and informed as I am, it was really bad.
 Any further questions, colleagues? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. All right. And Director Krieger, it appears obvious there needs to be some further answering of questions and refinements before this proposal is brought back for second reading. But thank you for your hard work on this. Thanks for bringing it this far. This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. There being no further business, we are adjourned until 2 p.m.
 Thank you. It is 2 o'clock. Good afternoon. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council, May 24th to 17th. Susan, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Udeli. Here. Here.
 Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Today's council session, we are not taking a vote. We are not deliberating on anything. Today's presentation is sponsored by Commissioners Fritz and Eudaly at the request of the family of Qantas Hayes. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you, Mayor. Earlier this year, I was in the House of Representatives.
 Theresa Rayford brought Donna Hayes and others to my office requesting an opportunity on the record in council chambers to honour the life of Qanis Hayes.
 during a scheduled meeting. As many may know, other community members have been testifying on a lot of other items unrelated because of their desire to talk about this issue. And so I want to thank Goldan Salazar, my office, for working with the Hayes family and my colleagues on the council, including Commissioner Udeli, who's co-sponsoring this event.
 to do this unusual presentation. So the rules of this meeting are different. We've allowed larger photographs to be brought in, for example, Mrs. Hayes is going to, Ms. Donna Hayes is going to lead the presentation, and the people that she's invited to speak will be able to speak here. And this is scheduled for two hours.
 And our job on the council and others in the audience who are not invited to be part of the testimony and the presentation, our job is to be active listeners and to make sure that we hear what the family is saying.
 Commissioner Daly. Thank you. First, I'd just like to mention if anyone feels like they need to take a break or have a quiet space or if you've brought children that need to take a break, my office is open and the conference room has some snacks for everyone. So...
 As Commissioner Fritz has already mentioned, we're here today at the request of Donna Hayes to honor the life of her grandson, Qantas Hayes, who was fatally shot on February 9th of this year. As this shooting is the subject of an ongoing internal police investigation, we cannot as a council comment on the specific circumstances, but I would like to take this opportunity to extend our condolences to the friends and family of Qantas Hayes.
 As the mother of a teenage son, my heart has broken a hundred times for the Hayes family, imagining their pain and loss. My extended family experienced a similar loss three years ago, so I know all too well the devastating ongoing impact that such a traumatic event has.
 As a city, community, and a council, we must commit to creating police policies and procedures that improve community interactions, repair relations, especially with communities of color, and provide accountability and transparency in order to create a safer community for all of us.
 I want to thank the family of Qantas Hayes for the strength and bravery that they have demonstrated by bringing this matter to council and helping to continue this vitally important dialogue during what is an incredibly challenging time for them. I'd now like to welcome Donna Hayes to the table. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Excuse me. Okay, my name is Donna Hayes.
 Greetings, Mayor Willer and commissioners. Thank you for the time you are giving me as a grieving grandmother who had to aid in burying her grandson. I want to first say to you, my mayor and police commissioner, that I voted for you. I don't give up my vote easily. With investigation, reasoning, and prayer, I chose you.
 I saw a man with a heart full of compassion, with a drive unmatched. I knew when I voted for you that you stood for ban the box. You promised to build a better government and accountability. The basic rights organ endorsed you because you care. Now let me tell you a little about me.
 I am from Chicago. I left Chicago because I felt it was becoming open season on children. I came to Portland in 1998 with two young sons. In 1999, I had my youngest daughter and encouraged my oldest daughter, who was pregnant, with her firstborn. Slowly over time...
 All my children, my mother, my sister and brother, and their children came too from my urging and description of this beautiful city. This was a place where people stopped their cars and flagged you across. You could learn someone's life story at the bus stop. Over time, I learned something else. This state didn't really want me here.
 In 1859, Oregon became a state with a black exclusion law written into its constitution. Another example is how Oregon refused to sign the 14th Amendment, and they didn't want me to vote. I couldn't marry someone that looked like you. I look past these things even after reading the article by Atlantic calling Portland the whitest city in America.
 Despite organs working to make this a white utopia, I stayed and encouraged my family to stay. I left Chicago for peace. Here I thought I had it. On February 9, 2017, the city of Portland declared war on my family, and the first casualty was Quanis Hayes, my 17-year-old grandson.
 I plan to fight this war. Yes, we had some black moments like we were here that was testing the water. For example, my son, a professional, headed to a sports bar to watch his favorite team. He was pulled over and forced to explain his coming and going. Has that ever happened to you, commissioners? This one I like.
 My son and I were walking down southeast Ankeny from 122nd to 117th. This is a stretch of road with no sidewalks. A police car pulled beside us. An officer directed his rough statement to my son, even though we were walking together. He said, get on the sidewalk. My son then pointed out the obvious. There's no sidewalks.
 He then just squirted away, this is just two. There is a lot more that my family, friends, and extended family have, having black moments here in Portland. Getting back to the war on that fateful day in February, two people were shot in this utopia. One black, one white. Guess who lived?
 In this year to date, there was four police shootings, two lived, a white man and a dog, two died. They were black. This made me feel like my grandson was less than a vicious dog. I read the mission, value and goals for the police department and I wasn't sure if I should laugh or cry or both.
 Their mission is to preserve life. Whose? Whom? Mr. Perkins or Qantas Hayes. The value that they are supposed to have is nonexistent. Where is the integrity when one commits a crime and the other in blue stand on that lie? Where is the compassion when a 65-year-old dies?
 It's slammed to the ground or a group in a stairwell is pepper sprayed. Where is the accountability when every grand jury hearing for proof that officers get this or never find an error in a cop? Where is the respect when the police tell the press before the family so they call and learn about their loved ones just like the public?
 Where is the excellence when a police beat up kids and feel justified for it? My other grandson at age 15 suffered this act. Where is the service when on the same day a white is wounded and a black child is killed? This is the police bureau's written values. In the directive for Portland's police goals in the policy section,
 It says our police is guided by the principle that the individuals have infinite dignity and worth. I had to stop writing because this statement broke my heart. My grandson on his knees, shot in the head, he had no dignity, no worth. The dog that was shot by the police had more worth.
 The police show our family work by dragging my grandson's name through the mud. It made me think, according to the police contract about embarrassing a police officer, what makes them better than moose. I want you to know you'll hear moose often in that. That's what we call my grandson. Did you know the birth of American police came from the institution of slavery?
 Slave patrols, night watch, later became modern day police department. If you want more details, Google it. You'll be surprised. I must stay on track. I know this is a war. I will not fight like militarized police force, but as a citizen with a voice. The city, county, state, country will hear not only for my people, but for all the silent voices.
 for brown people, homeless, for our mentally ill, again, for those silenced, unable to speak from the grave. I will be the strong voice in this. Again, my name is Donna Hayes. Remember it. You will hear it again.
 No, this is a revolutionary war, just like the ones fought by this country against the British. But this one will be against our government who stand by and let these atrocities stand with a blind eye. Did you know the people protested their harsh treatment and they were arrested like you're doing now?
 Just like Schaefer was arrested for standing with my family over the murder of my grandson, Qantas. I hope this is not your way of silencing this revolution. For this is not going to happen. When you arrest one, two takes their place.
 If you haven't noticed the growth of these organizations, look. Don't Shoot Portland, Black Lives Matter, the Black Panthers, and many grassroots organizations that are popping up in this city, you manage. These are organizations that is fought by citizens of Portland. If you watch closely, you will notice that the color lines are blurred.
 Where once this city stood divided and looked at them now joining together to fight a common enemy, your city military, the police. Mayor Willard, I don't envy your job. I believe you knew ex-Mayor Hale set you up. You took the job anyway. You became a mayor of a broken city with dirty little secrets.
 When these people protested at your home, your first reaction was to remove them. I'm sorry, but just like the president of the country, you have a 24-hour, seven days a week job. Even on your vacation, if a problem arises, you've got to come back. We often hear police accountability. I say before accountability, we need to demilitarize them first. Thank you.
 Soldiers and police shouldn't look the same. They should be different. Our cities are using federal dollars to build small armies as our police force. This brings out the idea of war on drugs. For all who don't know, that was the farce Nixon created to keep them alive.
 keep the irritated him off his agendas. Hippies and we fighting against his war he was waging. Black and heroin. This is the curve the civil rights movement. You know there can be no accountability if we don't know what happened. I personally cannot live with myself if I knew it was wrong and do nothing about it. But he or she did...
 No, he or she didn't do it, but he or she didn't tell. I laugh and think about all the detective programs they have out. They want you to talk, but they don't give up this concept. Where is the accountability in that? Police accountability can. Can they be held accountable when they are protected from above?
 I am not talking about the union because it is their job to protect the police. I am talking about the DA and judges. Here is where an example. DA Rod Underhill was responsible for indicting Andrew Hurst, 2013, for the murder of Mr. Hatch.
 It took those men 12 minutes from arriving to end the man's life. That was having a mental health crisis. Because of lack of indictment, Hurst was free to murder my grandson.
 Now with no hope of indictment because Portland's record of not indicting police, Hearst is free to kill again. It took him four years to kill Aquinas. I wonder whose family member he'll take out next. I wonder maybe that our DA doesn't have enough evidence to set before a grand jury. Most jobs require a jury test.
 after an injury. Our police are not required to take one after a shooting. How about this? They have 48 hours to get their lie in order before they have to make a statement. This is a real good one. The victim is put on trial. And being dead, they can't defend themselves. They make the victim at fault.
 The judge and the grand jury then accept this as you deserve it. The few transcripts I could get showed me the same thing, victim, guilty, cop, innocent. And I have read quite a few. And I mean not just here in this state, but across the country. I've been reading. When problems arise with your military in blue, you need to be on the scene.
 I watched you on the scene of your fourth shooting. Commissioner, you should have been on the scene when your military in blue shot the dog. My grandson that morning and Mr. Perkins that evening. They are your responsibilities too, sir. The cities have a messy way of handling our rights. The police should be demilitarized, for they are not an army.
 When Hurst first arrived, he went for an assault rifle. On the day of my grandson's burial, we came downtown and was met for our efforts by an army. They had tear gas. We had children. I had a seven-month-old, and my daughter had her 11-year-old at her side. A child was pushed over by your army.
 Oh God, have I heard stories, one with your citizens racing down a stairwell, followed by pepper spray and people being trampled. That is frightening. These are people that your job mandates that you take care of, protect, see to their well-being. But instead they are bullied, tortured, and killed by the ones we thought we needed.
 My 74-year-old mother had to bury her great-grandson also and was forced to watch an illegal arrest of a man who just was keeping her safe. He stood in front of her, and the police pushed him off the sidewalk and arrested him.
 The image on the news of police wearing helmets and masks, toting assault rifles, and rioting in mine-resistant armored vehicles. Why is the police department like an army? When we protest against the harsh treatment of police dressed like an army, they shouldn't look or dress like an army. Don't we have the National Guards for military use?
 Why do our police look like they are going to war when they are about to engage the citizens they have sworn to protect? We are not the enemy. Well, not until they kill one of us. Then they can become our enemies as they become my enemy. They make enemies by stomping, dragging, beating, pepper spraying, and murdering our families.
 We do have a tank or armored vehicle for what? Why do we have an armored vehicle? From my understanding, they protect from landmines. For real? Landmines? Where in Portland are there landmines? If there are landmines, would you inform the citizens where they are? So we can be protected. We won't go that way. Assault weapons. Now we are back to war again.
 Are there cartels in Portland? Do we really need assault weapons, armored vehicles here? Did I really misjudge this place being clean, green, and friendly? I'm here seeking answers. You all just explained Qantas death away. I read a 509-page grand jury transcript. No one was seeking the truth the way things were looked.
 It was a way to justify her murder of Qantas. The justification didn't just end there. Another officer stated she told Qantas about having a BB gun that looked real, and she didn't bother to tell his mother. That day she talked to his mother. I don't understand why she didn't tell her. The officer had a perfect opportunity when she talked to his mother. Or was this a cover-up?
 your own butt after the fact, or just to give them the benefit of the doubt. They were waiting on an opportunity to use him as target practice. So let's keep this knowledge to ourselves. Qantas gave the police a fictitious name. This was not the sign of a suicidal team. For him to bring a fake gun to an assault fight, assault rifle fight, this is suicidal.
 No, if you believe the transcript, he came with a false name and a good pair of running shoes and an opportunity to get away. I wish you all stopped covering up for this murder. Let's use some common sense. Qantas was not suffering from a mental crisis. He didn't bring a play gun to a shootout. He didn't deserve to die.
 In several cases, Moose ran from the police. For him to pull out a play gun seconds before he died, he had to be suicidal. Please, Hurst shot my grandson because he shouldn't be a cop. Why do police have to have a different standard of guilt than a citizen?
 If I shot someone, my grand jury hearing would not contain me or my lawyer. But when it is the police, they can come. In fact, they are thanked for coming. Their lawyer, the union is present. Two different standards. God forbid you embarrass one of the union, one,
 The union is down your throat. But you can take my grandson and drag him through the mud. Call a kid a grown man, a drug addict. Hearst is a grown man and maybe a drug addict. We don't know because no one checked. Why wasn't Hearst checked? Qantas was.
 What makes her so special after two shootings, no one checked to see if drugs was present in her system. With the police cover up and silent mode, how do we know what happened during random drug testing? That's what they tell me, they do random drug testing. They don't tell the truth. This is something that should be done by a community organization, some group like Cop Watch.
 Now, that is an accountability, okay? I am here looking for your heart, for help, not the CEO of Portland, city of Portland, not the legal side, but the protector of the city, not just the police commissioner, but the head of the city. I mentioned this once. I wouldn't want to be in your place. I wouldn't want to walk into an office left by hell.
 A man who didn't care how he left the city or the people of the city. If he cared, that unpopular police contract wouldn't exist. God only knows the horrors he left you. Stepping into an office and less than a month later, two officers involved shooting. No, I wouldn't want your job. You chose this job because our governor was scared you would run against her.
 But since you have this job voting in by the citizens of Portland, you have a duty to us. Your job should go to the kid on his knees, the visitor with the afro, terrorized by your police, the homeless, the people being beat up, stabbed to the ground, arrested for protesting, and my personal favorite, wants to be shot by a cop.
 These are your responsibility to the deceased and the hurt by your police bureau.
 You are the head of the police force. By being mayor and commissioner, remove the bed. Sit some behind desks. Stop giving them life and death choice. Giving them life and death to who are capable. Give the life and death choices to people who are capable of this. And respect life.
 I believe Andrew Hearst, a free murderer, is a danger to the city. Andrew Hearst was not invited to the team or even sent. On page 486 of that grand jury transcript, quote, we saw the team of officers on the south side of the road. Instead of being sent, he just showed up.
 and came prepared with a lethal weapon. He stated that his role and responsibility was the lethal role. No, it was not. He just showed up. Nowhere in the transcript was he asked to assume that role. Again, he just showed up. Now, as we responsible people allow Andrew Hurst to carry an assault rifle again...
 when he was in the situation four years ago. The man grew up in one of the most racist states in America, North Idaho. This place is known for harboring a neo-Nazi compound. This place also experienced religious bigotry. Did anyone check his credentials?
 Do you have a plan set in place to check for bigotry, or is this a plus in this white-topia? He stated he went to a Bible college. Isn't he in the wrong field? For real, he states he went through a lot of training. Again, for real, Mike Marshman can get signed off. Why can't Andrew?
 This person said he went through ECIT. This is Enhanced Crisis Intervention, which involves mental illness or behavior health. My grandson had to be expressing mental health issues in order to, by the transcript, play gun.
 and go up against an assault rifle. This person was a part of the neighborhood response team. Their job, according to him, was to help the neighborhood with chronic nuisance issues and livability concerns. I guess my grandson was on that concern. Another thing that stands out in his training for his assault rifle, four years ago he carried an AR-15 rifle.
 Shot five times and missed. Mr. Hatch was a moving target, and his present training, he didn't account for a moving target. Now the training division requested more training from her. I guess his training paid off because, according to him, Qantas was a moving target reaching for a gun.
 I asked a police officer, was this an AR-15 he was carrying? And he walked away as if I wasn't talking to him. Just walked away. I was invisible to him. Keep in mind, the building he was walking out of, the name was Community Policing. Am I not part of the community? Did not my question deserve an answer?
 because it seemed he'd rather shoot me than answer my question. This is the way he made me feel. I find it so hard to believe Qantas was reaching for anything in his waistband or pockets. We are a black family. We have talks about what to do if you're stopped by a police. My four-year-old grandson over there can tell you what to do if he's stopped by a police.
 Here's another history lesson for your benefit. Martin Luther King was assassinated. All over the country, cities were set on fire. Don't let this happen to this city. No, this is war. It's only a matter of time before your citizens say, enough is enough. Truly, your tourism and the people moving here will stop. Really, I left Chicago because it was a messy city.
 This is a messy city, too. But everything right now is kept as a dirty little secret. How long will you be able to keep the secret of police killing citizens, also hindering their rights? Hear our voices. Make change. Let the city take the necessary steps to be really beautiful.
 What is the independent review board? From what I read and my visit there, they are a waste of city resources. They lack power. They make recommendations and it's ignored. For example, they recommended the 48-hour rule and state in the beginning who's in charge.
 Truly, if someone was in charge, they would have stopped Hearst from being the lethal weapon. Never once do I read, was somebody in charge? Nobody told him to give the lethal weapon. And that 48-hour rule, like I say, gave him an opportunity to get his life corrected.
 The Compliance Officer and the City Liaison Report for the third and fourth quarter of 2016 stated that use of force was in partial compliance, which states the city police force need additional work. Migrants and murder is an example of how much work is needed.
 For all who don't understand this report, it is the required resolution from the federal government stepping in when Hearst and his two fraternity brothers in blue decided to shoot Mr. Hatch for aiming a telephone receiver at them. It also speaks of training about the use of force again, partial compliance.
 Who would have guessed? And again, this raises questions about the independent review board suggestion. I watched Portland for the 19 years I have been here, and I have not seen them rectify its mistakes. One of your first actions was to make initial assignments to city departments known as bureaus.
 The five commissioners of which you assign yourself the Portland Police Bureau. As police commissioner, what will you do about our family aftermath? Right after Quanis' murder, our family, a close-knit family, fought and argued over what steps to take next. Because we just didn't know what to do next.
 We should have came together, but we drew apart. We should have stood together. We walked away. This city took a loving, proud family and buried them with Qantas. We talked to him with tears.
 We have to repeat to the four and three years that the four-year-old and three-year-old, that the hero is not coming back. They said, oh, that we'll never know Aquinas. Only way he'll know Aquinas through pictures and us talking. And these will be sad stories.
 Let me speak for me, how I live. Every time I see some devastating parent looking back over their child's life, crying. Every time I see my daughter sitting with a blank stare on her beautiful face, crying. When I walk through another person is still trying to live with no hope for resolution for the death of their loved one. I cry.
 When I am on a line and I see a video of a person killed, beaten, mauled by a canine, I cry. I keep a picture of Moose on my phone, and sometimes I look at it and I cry. I miss him terribly as my heart tears loose. I watch him come into the world. I watched that baby be born. I was right there, catch a smith, ready for that baby to come into the world.
 And I cried for that. That was a happy cry. I watched my daughter cry over the life she brought into the world and cry not only for me, but for her. I believe that I will be crying forever. My heart hurts for me, my family, and everyone that suffered under the hands of our military in blue. What are we supposed to do if we run away?
 across Hearst. That's a scary thought for me and my family. We live in the East Precinct. We have never been comfortable with the police. Now it's even worse. What are we supposed to do now that the city has swept Qantas under a rug? How are we supposed to live? Qantas lost and no real justice.
 Mayor, what are we supposed to do? Aren't we a part of this city? Aren't we a part of the message that you, as our elected official, is supposed to take care of? Where is our help? We must be the complex part of society. Why do we have to live with the unfairness? Step up, sir. Do your job.
 Keep your word. Let this be a peaceful resolution to the war. Again, I am looking to your heart for help. Not the corporation side, but the protector of the city. Not the police commission only, but the head of all. I mentioned this once. I would not want to be in your place. I wouldn't want to walk into your office left by hell who did not care.
 I wouldn't want to see the horrors hidden behind the beauties of the city. Stepping into an office one month later and police involved shooting by a racist serial killer. Oh, see what goes on in the city council. I see what goes on in the city council. The lack of respect and accountability your constituents hold you to.
 I don't want my job, I don't want your job, that I had to step up because we are at war. I don't want to be in everyone's office talking about my heart and the things I have read. It is so trying. Going to bed early or falling asleep in a chair. This is not how I see my life. But we are at war. The dying generation.
 The dead needs a spokesperson. I assure you, Mayor, this is a war. I know you didn't start or would be able to end this war. The city has become leeway when it comes to that foolish contract. You can place certain positions on the civil rolls.
 You have the power to execute rights for the level of service, methods of service. You can hire, lay off, transfer, promote, discipline, or discharge an officer. I read the contract. If you choose not to hire Firehurst, send him at a desk and definitely send him to another precinct.
 There is a cause for repeat. There is a clause for repeat cause. You have several cops that have fallen into that realm. There's several cops that have been repeat shooters. Somebody needs to do something about that. For accountability, after a lethal force, do a psychological evaluation and make it public. We need to know who is actually...
 protecting us. Is this some psychotic person? Doing immediate drug tests also made public. I am not an island. In order to make change, we must collaborate and find common ground, whether we agree or disagree with each other's thoughts. I am willing to work with you, Mayor. I hope you are willing to work with me.
 I will not stop. Qantas murders should result in change, reform in the police department. Make some changes. Let the world see my city of choice, a city I chose, is standing in the right and standing up for its citizens. I really don't want this forgotten. This is a war. I don't want you to forget this is a war.
 People are fighting here and around this country. Cop watch. Don't you pardon them. Black Panthers, Brown Beret. This is just to name a small portion in your city. Mayors standing with the police bureau is a losing battle. They have to change.
 Remember, as a supporter of the Constitution, the Fifth Amendment, no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process. Terrell Johnson, Qantas Hayes, lost their life without due process. No arrest, no trial. Their due process came from their judge dread.
 Stand up for the framers of the Constitution.
 Please pick a chief of police that will demonstrate the capacity, the commitment, these are your words, commitment to expand an existing strategy as well as create new, I added that, create new ones to improve relationships with the people of color who at present have no use for the police. And that's a true statement. You couldn't have said it no better. It's so true.
 You know there is racism here. I will give you an example. Four shot, two live. A white man, a dog, two die. Both black. The union wants to highlight or acknowledge the hard work, the dedication, the professionalism, and integrity of the police department. I will highlight it for them.
 I acknowledge that they are dedicated to themselves and wiping out people of color. They show me their professionalism when they won't answer a simple question or act like you don't exist. Integrity is something I have not seen, especially with the lies, secrets they keep from my family and the world during their mock investigation.
 I have saved the hard work for less. From where I stand, I see only fear, for that is what they use to kill a citizen. As I read that article, I wanted to vomit. Please don't let those bigots dictate how you run your city. The people are tired. Please remember the civil rights error. Don't let Portland burn. Be a part of history today.
 No, just don't, not just repeating history. I hope you really see the injustice or do you like hearing your own voice? Allow me to end with observation. I ask to, I ask, what I ask is obtainable. What this, I have not just come here just to whine and complain.
 I think you should know where the shooting by Hearst put a family and the consequences of that action. But I am liking, I'm looking for change. Mr. Bell, back east, created a slogan after the police murder of his son. It says, when police kill, who dies?
 When people, when police kill, should they judge themselves? Now, that is a question for you. I hope you'll be able to answer that. Wisconsin is the first state.
 in the nation to mandate on the legislative level that if an officer was involved with a loss of life, that outside investigators should come in and collect the data and investigate the shooting. They shouldn't do this. They're friends. The police here are friends. They stick together. They lie together. They shouldn't investigate each other. Okay.
 You allow officers that work with Hearst and some, maybe his friends, to investigate him. This city wants transparent investigation. I want a transparent investigation. If the officer did everything right, show everybody. I do recognize that officers risk their life, but do they all? Do they make judgment calls that end lives unnecessary?
 Change needs to happen. Men of color are in extreme danger. This is my nephew. He is in danger. We have a problem with training. Racism that put all in danger. How about anti-racism training? So your cops stop targeting certain ethnicities to help break down some common assumption. Because there are some common assumptions.
 They look at him and the first thing come out their mouth, he ain't got no driver's license. That's a common assumption. I ride the bus. I don't have driver's license. I'm smart. Some sort of de-escalation training. This might have saved Moose's life if somebody had just taken the time to see if that boy was coming out that thing with his hands up.
 This would aid in a peaceful resolution, not always resulting in death. Let lethal force be a last resort. This is now my personal favorite, demilitarized policing. Did you see all the military equipment on the ground in Ferguson? Did anybody see that?
 Your police practice chemical warfare. I watch them with tear gas on their back. That's chemical warfare against citizens. Your community policing doesn't work. You know why? Because the community isn't important. The community is an enemy. My last question, I would like an answer. Do Hearst live in the East Precinct? I do. I do.
 If he doesn't, he shouldn't work there. Please make your transition to the governor's seat easy, because I know that's where you're headed. And you can make it there. You can. You have the heart. You have the drive. And I would vote for you. Mandatory body cams. That's something mandatory.
 If it is tampered with, make an option, jail or dismissal, because they do tamper with them, because they don't want you to know what they just did. Finally, put cameras in all the transporting vans. People being transported need some form of security. I have presented my case. Thank you. I'd just like to add one more thing. For two years, Salt Lake City hasn't killed anybody. Mm-hmm.
 Look at what they're doing. There are cities and states all over this country are making a change. Come on, Portland, let's make that change with them. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 okay my mother want to come up Sylvia Dollison and Adonis what you got to say Adonis come up close I miss my brother and that was his hero what we're looking at that was his hero
 This boy, actually, Quantus used to protect him from me. I get mad at him. Quantus was being a hero. I had to check Quantus, like, pay attention. I'm his grandma. I'm not going to kill him. But that was his protector. Okay. Thank you. Adonis Hayes, for the record. My name is Sylvia Dollison. I'm Quantus's great-grandmother.
 I need to tell you how I felt burying my great-grandson. It hurt. It still hurt. I was angry, and I was hurt. I've gotten rid of some of the anger, but I'm still hurt. They killed my great-grandson. Now, I want you to think about something. I'm on my knees. I'm 17 years old with baggy pants. I'm on my knees with one hand up.
 One hand trying to hold them baggy pants up. What danger am I to you that would make you shoot me? What danger? I was on my knees trying to pull up my baggy pants with one hand up. I was a danger to the police officers. Why didn't others pull guns? There needs to be a change. They had a demonstration downtown after Qantas' burial. I wanted to go out in the streets.
 But because the police had injured an older lady, there were some young men who stopped me from going. They stood me on the sidewalk and held out their hands in front of me like this. A policeman came up, grabbed and snatched the young man off the sidewalk, put handcuffs on him, and arrested him. I found out his name, and I went to go to court with him. Got to the court, nothing. Everything dropped.
 But why did they arrest him in the first place? I don't understand. Why is it that my family gets together nearly every holiday, makes little bags of candy, and take it downtown and pass it out to the homeless? Why did the police find it necessary this last time we did around Easter to follow us all around downtown? Why? I would like to know why.
 And I would like to know, what do you plan on doing? I still got great-grandsons. I got grandsons. I don't want to live through another death like I just went through. It hurt. It hurt too bad. Please, do something about it. And back to what my daughter said, I trusted you, and I voted for you. Do something.
 Change this police force. Get some people who care about people. If they're going to protect us, then they have to care about us also. Give them psych evaluation. See what they're prone to do. Do something, Mayor. Please. Thank you. You ready? I have Terrence Hayes. This is our Moosa's cousin.
 Thank you. How y'all doing? My name is Terrence Hayes. It's a pleasure to be here. My auntie invited me. I don't, to be honest, I don't think y'all got to do anything.
 I think it's easy for y'all to be in y'all position. I think some of y'all sincerely care and it's powerless. And some of y'all really don't. And that's your agenda. That's your particular right. I don't really care to judge who you is inside. That's a particular...
 That's your raising background or whatever. That's not on me to judge. But you guys do have a responsibility to the people of this city. And that our family do have a right to judge. And the city has a right to judge. And no matter what, this commission has to be serious about the fact that there is a problem.
 There's always this misconception that when a family endures something like this, that we think all police officers is evil and everybody has an agenda against us. That's not what my family is saying. What we're saying is there is a particular atrocity that happened to us.
 And because that atrocity happened to us, we became more aware of the fact that many families is going through the same thing. And particularly within this city, there are police officers that go to work every day that love this city and love the people.
 And then there's police officers that don't. There are citizens that wake up and work hard every day. Then there's people like I was as a young man that was selfish and conceited and did violence towards others. I was punished for my offense to this city. Part of my indictment was I committed an offense to the peace of Portland. Right?
 of this city. It is interesting that police officers are wrecking the peace of this city and there is no accountability to that. That's what the city, that's what the people is lamenting about.
 There seems to be this idea that because we're saying that there's a need for change that we believe everybody has the problem. No, we believe that a particular system has existed and because that system has worked for so many years that that system is oppressive at times.
 I'm an electrician now. I got my trade during my incarceration. I was blessed that there were people during my incarceration that cared about me coming home and succeeding. But the truth of the matter is, my style as an electrician is reflected by the journeyman who taught me. You become an apprentice to somebody, you take on their traits and attributes like a disciple does. What we're saying is that after,
 After hundreds of years of slavery, after hundreds of years of Jim Crow laws, after hundreds of years of segregation, that there is a system that has existed. And that sometimes people are oppressors in the system when they don't even know that they are. Because they have taken the traits of people that came before them.
 We're saying that this commission has an obligation to deal with the fact that it is a system that is part of the problem. And when we talk about Portland police officers, we're talking about people who have been taught.
 apprenticed by people before them and no one can sit here and argue that in the last two or three hundred years that our particular culture has been affected by an oppressive system
 But when we challenge y'all to attack the system because people have been taught through generations that there's a problem, the police force generationally has been a problem to the African-American community. We're not saying that we have not committed crimes. People have. But there's just as many white Americans as there's black Americans incarcerated.
 But white Americans don't face the same fear when they're pulled over in their vehicles that I do. Not because every police officer is a danger to me, but because there is a particular system that exists that is dangerous to me.
 and that's what we're saying that's what I'm saying I'm saying it's time to say if the system if the same union have protected the same oppressive system then at some point we have to counterbalance that that's the challenge to the mayor and the commission here is what are we going to do as a people and what is the leadership going to do to counterbalance a system that has some issues
 Not that it hasn't done better, not that it hasn't tried, but there are some issues. And what we're saying is, when are we going to be serious about the fact that if a police officer who hated minorities taught another police officer to hate minorities, and may not say hate minorities, but when I trained you, I taught you to.
 deal in minority cultures a particular way then I'm implanting things in you that you might not know about so yes I'm not saying that every cop who deals with me is racist I'm saying the system that taught him is definitely racist this
 This is a challenge. This is a challenge, I believe, for the city of Portland, is that not only is racism an issue, classism is an issue. The poor, the oppressed generally is treated differently in their particular communities. This is why my aunties say, where does he live? Where does he live?
 Not because you have to live in my community to work there, but when you live in my community and work there, you deal with the people differently because you understand the people.
 What we're saying is that Officer Hurst clearly does not understand that every Portlander, black, white, because he's clearly offended all Portlanders in this particular case, in his history, that every Portlander is not an offense to him. He sees civilians that he comes in contact with as his enemies the moment he comes in contact with them. And that's a problem because he's supposed to be serving the people of this community.
 And at some point we have to begin to say,
 How many Portlanders with no weapons, no guns, for instance, Portland has a choice of evils law. You cannot do more hurt to a person than the perceived danger that they bring to you. If I'm fighting you, if we're fighting, and I haven't perceived to kill you, you cannot kill me. This is how our law is set up, to protect individuals from extreme consequences of minor offenses.
 our police force need to have a certain level of the same accountability you being tired, you being angry you having this perceived fear is not justification for murder and the police force is allowed their fears is justification for doing unlawful things there was not a violent weapon in Quintus' possession
 It was a perceived violence. And because the violence were perceived, his actions was justified.
 No other civilian, no other citizen. Police, everybody always say, well, I understand that their lives are in danger. Everybody's life is in danger every day because there are violent people who might put your life in danger. Our country, our community, there are people who are constantly doing violent things to Americans. They are labeled terrorists. Yet the police force can continue to shoot unarmed.
 unarmed people in Portland and they're labeled as servants to the people. They should be demonized and held accountable in the same way that if anybody walked up to you, mayor, and did something harmful to you and they said, well, I thought you were going to punch me, mayor.
 Are you going to say, well, because you thought you're in danger, then you should be given a pass for your offense? No. Certainly you're going to say perceived danger is not justification for harming me. Police officers have been given the right because of perceived fear.
 to do horrendous things. And at some point, that has to change. Your perceived fear, you're human. You have fear. I'm 33 years old, and sometimes when I'm at work in a factory and I'm walking around by myself, I have kiddie perceived fears that that creek was something dangerous when there was just a wind blowing the door open. Is my perceived fear justification for bad actions? No. No.
 And police officers have that right. And not only have this city, through not holding them accountable, and they over-empowered union, have allowed them to have this right that precede fear is justification for harming people in Portland. This is ultimately the issue. If Qantas would have pulled out a gun and aimed it towards police officers, me and my family wouldn't be sitting here today. But nobody said that he did.
 So how can you not say that your life was really in danger, but to perceive fear was enough? That's the problem. And what we're saying is that has to change. That's why people at bus stops and on corners are being hurt by police officers who say, well, we perceived that he was being a little aggressive. Maybe because he was upset and he was expressive. Right?
 Nobody holds the police accountable when they yell at you because you're saying that under their job, sometimes they have to be commanding. And they do.
 But if I hurt a police officer because he yelled at me, then I will go to jail. But police officers are allowed to do this. Perceived fear allowed them to hurt people. And at some point, that just has to change. That's why we're here. Because if somebody would have attempted to hurt a police officer and they would have protected themselves, nobody would have been here. Nobody would be screaming and yelling injustice. But they haven't. And that's the problem.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Cornice was my boyfriend. Sorry. I wrote an essay, a narrative essay for my college class about Cornice that I'm going to read. His dreads were getting long and covered his beautiful deep brown eyes, and the blonde was starting to fade out of his dreads. His skin was dark, the darkest skin I've ever seen. Sorry, my phone's doing something.
 Just turn it off. Turn it off. Everybody can hear it. Everybody hear it. Excuse us. Sorry. Wasn't prepared. We had a cell phone on. How's it going? I'm sorry. It's working. His skin was dark, the darkest I've ever seen. It was flawless, no marks.
 He stood about eight inches taller than I was when I hugged him and his chin rested on my head. He'd always smelled of soap and Giorgio or Monte Cologne, his favorite. His arms fit perfectly around me and his hand fit perfectly in mine. I was staring at his deep brown eyes when he grabbed my arm and told me we were leaving. He was sick of the security following us. So I followed him and grabbed his hand while we walked. I was wearing some sweats and his hoodie and my hair was a mess of a bun.
 I felt like a bum while he looked flawless, as always. The cold air hit my face, and I flinched while he put my hood over my messy hair. I smiled and kissed him on the cheek. He always knew what I needed, all the time, without me even having to say anything. Security followed us outside, so he got mad. He told me to keep walking, but I stood right there, being stubborn as usual. He turned around, and so did I. He looked at security and asked why they were following us.
 Do they have a reason or were they just being assholes? They didn't say anything, so he just walked away and grabbed me before I could say something really rude to them. He knew me too well. He walked towards me trying to act like he wasn't mad, but I know that face with his pursed lips and his nose all turned in the wrong way. The storm made him leave before he barely walked in.
 He tried not to let things like this get to him, but I could tell he was frustrated. He knew the only reason that he got treated like this was the color of his skin. He had finally had enough of it, but there was nothing he could do about it. He used to tell me that he would make sure his kids never had to feel like this and that he'd do anything to make sure of that. But in that moment, I could tell he felt helpless, that there was nothing he could possibly do to change how people judged him on his skin color. And I hated seeing him like that.
 because he never really got upset over things like that. But I couldn't blame him. All I could do was help him feel better about himself and tell him things were going to get better. But things didn't get better. They got worse. It had become a daily thing about store security following him and being denied even to go into some stores until the racism in this country killed him, literally killed him. Andrew Harris thought Kiwanis matched the description and killed him for matching it. Mm-hmm.
 Portland Police Bureau then blamed Qantas for all the crimes committed in the area and the officer got away with it because he was scared for his life and his co-workers. When Q was simply pulling up his pants while he was on his knees because everyone knows he sags his pants. I'll never forget that morning, that first day without Q. I woke up confused because he wasn't in bed with me like usual. My head hurt and I had scrapes on my arms from what I wasn't quite sure.
 I called his phone to find it on the nightstand next to the bed. I had this sick feeling in my stomach that something was really wrong. I now hate myself for ignoring that feeling. I figured if he wasn't back by the time I'd gotten back from my brother's court, then I'd start worrying because he'd get mad if I got worried too quickly. When I got back from my brother's court, he was still gone. I still couldn't tell you why that's the moment I first cried, but it was...
 My brother tagged me in a post 15 minutes later after getting off the phone with me, and I read the article. It said, It was right down the street from where we were. It wasn't cute, though. It couldn't be him. He wasn't okay. He was okay.
 I texted his mom to see if he had gotten in contact with her some way and when she didn't reply, I called every hospital in Portland asking about the police shooting, if the victim was there, if they could give me a name. I couldn't believe, I wouldn't believe it was him. My mom called me and told me my uncle was coming to get me and that's when I realized it was Qantas. My best friend, the love of my life, the person I planned my entire life with was gone.
 Racism still existed and I knew that, but I never thought it would kill the worth of my life. Thank you. Thank you. Evelyn. My name is Evelyn Murray and I was invited here to speak on behalf of Moose. Like his grandmother said, that is the name that those that spend time with Moose knew him.
 And the only time I knew his real name, honestly, was when I was reading it in the newspaper. And I didn't read the newspaper for a while because everybody was telling me about the young man that was killed. And because I haven't been around Moose for a few years. But I used to, the way I met Moose was, I used to go out and hide in Gresham on his grandmother's couch to get away from my grown children so I could have a break. I have six girls and two boys.
 and I'm from a family of 12 brothers and four sisters. And I grew up in Georgia. And I guess I have to say thank you for having me here and listening. And the one I'm really talking to here today is not you guys, because you guys are not the sovereign Lord Jehovah, and you don't make the final decision.
 But Nick Fish, as I remember one time you told me, how have you know I was a civil rights lawyer? And I said to myself, what does that have to do with tea in China? What are you doing now? I've had principals that tell me, I marched with Martin Luther King. And I had to ask my kids to leave a room because I said, is it all right if I cuss the principal out? Because I told them what the F is that got to do with now?
 You know, what are you doing now? Like Janet Jackson, what have you done for black people lately? Okay. And this is where I am here with you guys. And Amanda Fritz, with you, I read your history. When Teresa Rafer ran against you, I knew nothing about you. So I'm the type of person, I don't vote for somebody just because they're the same color skin as me. I want a person that's just.
 but I found out that you were a mental health psychiatric nurse. And I said, well, my goodness, she understands what we're going through. And when Donna told me today that you're the one that helped her come today to talk about this issue, I want to be brief. And one of the things... Where is it? One of the things I want to talk about today is that you, especially you, Mayor, because I've learned that
 The head that rears the crown is always shaky. And you're the head of the police department. In every city, the mayor controls the police department. And then the chief of police, and you really need to get one. And I'm thinking about running for police chief, okay? Seriously. Because I heard a police chief does not have to be a police officer, okay?
 So we need to be brave enough to start a conversation about things that matter. And here it is 400 and whatever many years later, and ever since Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation, white people, the slave master children, that's who you guys are, you and me, and that's your ancestors coming from Europe. Things are changing. Things are changing.
 There's a wind that's going to be blowing from the south. And I don't know if any of you guys know about farming, but when this wind starts blowing from the south, that is a bad omen. Okay? And one of the things I want to do is you don't want to have what's happened here. My daughter said, Mom, what if somebody killed one of my babies? She said, I'm not going to be nice. Like Pete said, I don't want to do nice. We get tired of doing nice and being nice.
 But I read this list. It's called The Eight Stages of Genocide. It talked about genocide is a process that develops in eight stages that are predictable but not exonerable. In each stage, it is preventable.
 If measures are taken to stop it. And that's what this meeting is about today. The measures that you need to take to stop it. Because if somebody, like my daughter said, I thought about that. I said, Lord, what am I going to do? Because I'm a Jehovah's Witness, right? So I'm supposed to put on a spiritual suit of armor and draw close to God. Okay? But you know what I told the brothers at the Kingdom Hall? Peter had a sword.
 And if he would have been here today, Peter would have had whatever gun that police officer that shot Moose with. Okay? But Jesus told Peter to stand down because this is not my world. If this was my world, I could call down legions of angels.
 And it wouldn't even be a one-sided war. Have you seen what Hurricane Andrew did down in Florida? Okay. It looked like somebody got and put the whole little community through a paper shredder. And the next storm after that was Hurricane Katrina. Well, we haven't had a riot of black people in years.
 And if you guys don't do something, eventually we're going to have to do something. And it will start when you gun down one of my babies. And Moose was one of my babies. Moose loved hog maws, didn't he? I used to cook them. He said, you going to be here this weekend? Are you going to cook? Oh, you going to cook? And I fed this young boy. This young boy used to get up at 5 o'clock in the morning to catch the max.
 to come into Portland to go to school because he was part of the gentrification that was sent out in East County to be forgotten.
 And you guys don't know Moose. Moose was happy. Five o'clock every morning, get up to catch the Max. Why? Because he couldn't go to school in East County. Why? Because on one end of the hallway, he was a digger. And on the other end of the hallway, he was a nigger. And I can't say... We say nigger. You say nigger, okay, with the R on it. So...
 He would come home crying, and his uncle, who has passed away, Melvin Dex passed away from a brain aneurysm. And they talked to Moose, and they said, Moose, you're going to have to be tough. You're going to have to bear up under it. I'm from Georgia. The KKK used to come to my grandfather's yard. They knew better than to come dressed in their regal costume, the sheet and the hood. And they knew better than to let the horse footprint step in my grandmother's yard.
 I'm from Georgia. Georgia is one of the states that stands their ground. I had a gun when I was 16. I didn't have a permit for it. In Georgia, you don't have to have one. So you don't hear about things happening in Georgia, do you? Because it'll be a shootout at the O.K. Corral. My grandfather was worse than the Black Panthers were in California. So I grew up with a gun. Don't have me to pick one up. I'm a Marx woman, okay?
 You can make a movie. I could be a sniper on top of the garage. And I'm not threatening you. I'm promising all of you. I almost died on an operating table. I had an aneurysm that ruptured. I had two heart attacks on the table. Both kidneys shut down. And then they hooked me up to a life support system to finish the surgery. And I can't believe that Moose is not here. I just can't believe it. What do you want? You better ask yourself that.
 And you hold your head and say, this is serious. This is so serious. Like the grandma said, I would not want to be in your shoes. So I'm going to have to let the mic go because you keep tapping me.
 And I can't do the eight steps of genocide, but I wish that everybody would Google it. Okay? Because it talks about classification, symbolization, dehumanizing, organization, polarization, preparation, extermination. And the final one is denial. Now, you go back and keep denying something, okay? Okay? You cannot stay. This is too much. Okay?
 Right now, the United Nations, I heard about the United States walking out on the racism conference race in 2001. And they walked out nine times in a row. Twelve now. Sixteen, really. Okay, I'm going to go. And, okay, okay, 30 seconds. I'm asking that the Don't Shoot Me and all the other groups that are out there get together. It is time for us.
 to take our children off the pipeline to prison. And it means we need to pull our kids out of public school. We can know you guys are not protecting our children. And it's time for us to file a class act suit against the city of Portland. Portland Public Schools is the largest one in the district. And the Board of Education of Oregon. I'm trying to drag you off on that. OK. She said I have to be dragged out.
 I have already started a class act suit signature to start a petition. And I'm asking everyone here to put their names on it and sign it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yudi Lewis. Come on back. She's going to read something someone else sent that couldn't have come. You got something to say before? No.
 My name is Yudi Lewis, and I do have something to say beforehand. Qantas was a beautiful soul, and he will not be forgotten. And the Moose movement will stand no matter who tries to shut it down. We will continue to fight for what we believe in and for the justice for Qantas because he was silenced, and that wasn't fair. He had no way to stand up for himself. But I also have something to read for Pamela Rogers who couldn't be here today. Okay.
 Where oh where has the reason gone? Reason is judgment's ability to think, collect information, survey, weighing probability, and to calculate with accuracy. Where has reason gone? If we are going to give officers the ability to use their own judgments to shoot and kill, then we need to be sure that they have the ability to have some sound reason with accuracy.
 Every man, woman, and child depends on these officers' ability to have some reason with accuracy in high-pressure situations. What law, ordinances, or statute states that an officer has the right to shoot and kill an unarmed man?
 If there be no such law, ordinance, or statute that gives him the right, then may I ask where are these officers getting their information from, that they can shoot and kill unarmed people, especially people of color? Are these officers getting this information from their own belief? Is it from their environment? I believe that it is imperative that we should know the answer to these types of questions before we give them a badge, a uniform, a gun, and the authority to shoot.
 And kill, with no fear of or concern of prosecution. We need to get some sort of protocol of psychological...
 psychology testing that looks specifically at a potential officers abilities to have sound reason with accuracy and that they have balance in their conclusions our officers need to understand that they serve and protect justice and they are to deal with the public with a just and balanced hand according to the standard that is set by in the integrity of shoe justice true justice has its own standard and integrity as defined by dictionary dot com and those who serve and protect it must adhere to justice standards
 No man is above true justice. This was written on behalf of Cornice Hayes by Pamela Rogers. Thank you. Thank you. Teresa. Thank you. For the record, my name is Teresa Rayford, and I'm a fourth-generation Oregonian.
 Also, for the record, I'm just thankful that Amanda and Chloe gave us the opportunity to bring our family in here and to speak on the record in regards to the issues that we're dealing with. And I don't want to say that our children are issues. I'm thinking that the unprofessional conduct of our police force and the way that the union is antagonizing the city council is the issue.
 I want to just, for the record, say that today is Mac Day Day. Deontay Keller was murdered. Today would have been his 42nd birthday. He was my cousin. He was killed by the Portland police as well. I have several cousins that were killed by the Portland police. I want this child's generation not to have to fight against the same abusive power that we're fighting against. Somebody need to leave my mic alone. I'll talk loud. Thank you.
 It's not fair. It's not fair. We're looking at a board of white people. You guys look stiff to me, and I know that your hearts work, and I know that you have a consciousness, but you also, you look really stiff to me because as somebody that's been hurt by this system, when I tell you that it hurts and I bring families to you that are mourning the death of their children, you've used violence against us.
 You hurt us. You use military weapons against us. You use chemicals against us. You use the proper opportunity to use media against us, to criminalize us and make our voices unjust. You humiliate us. You humiliate us so bad that our families are ashamed of us and kids don't know that they matter.
 It's embarrassing and it's a shame. When we were out there on Malcolm X Day with the babies in front of the police station across the street from the Boys and Girls Club where Quanis used to go, they shuffled the kids through the back door. While we talked about Malcolm X being a teacher and him being a leader and that our families matter and our babies matter, they shuffled them to the back door as the police looked at it and smirked at us.
 They took those babies in the back because we were saying black lives matter. And they came back afterwards and they said, we know black lives matter. But the Boys and Girls Club and the police and all the teachers and everybody else that propagates that they like black lives when we're not around. That support the protest when it's permitted. That stands next to you when you go to them because they appointed.
 or they're a gatekeeper upon when they act like Black Lives Matter, but they don't speak about us and they don't speak to us and they put their nose up in the air? That's not the truth. That's not the truth. This child is the truth. His grandma's the truth. His cousin's the truth. His little sister's the truth. That man ain't come down to be at an RPBL by his brother is the truth. What y'all did to us in the street on the day that we had a baby when his great grandma put those
 happen again. That happened. That happened. That's an experience. It can never happen again. You took away from the family dignity. You took the family's dignity away from them. You allowed racists and trolls and bigots to humiliate them even more, even to this day. The videos are still out there. They're still humiliating them. You took away someone's life systemically because you propagate the fear of black people.
 We know how benefits happen in the city when you have terror. If you tell somebody that there's something to be afraid of and they put more money into a budget so that you can mandate safety and protection for them, not us. You can't use us that way. We're human. When our babies die, we cry. It's not because we're arrogant. It's not when we say that we have a problem with somebody that is a leader. We're not trying to be vindictive.
 when we come into this room and I was as I have since 2010 when my nephew was murdered I'm not coming here because I'm bored or indecent I'm coming here because his life mattered thank you thank you hi my name is Tanoba Hayes and I just had a wanted to pose some questions for you guys
 from a black mother. I have a nine year old and a 10 year old little black boy. You guys will never understand the anxiety of simple stuff like your babies playing outside.
 having to come in contact with the police. Since this stuff happened with Qantas, me and my husband have been in the grocery store and saw a 9- or 10-year-old little boy being targeted by white employees, being accused of stealing when he had a receipt in his hand. You guys will never have to understand that. And I understand, like they said earlier, for police working in an urban community that they're not familiar with,
 They are going to behave in a way that's different as if they had grew up in that community because they've socialized with us. They understand our culture, how we dress, how we talk. They won't be afraid of certain things because they've experienced certain things. My 10-year-old wanted to be a police officer since as long as I can remember. We always encouraged him. That's a great occupation. It's something we encouraged him to do. He doesn't want to be a police officer anymore.
 What do we tell our sons when they encounter problems at school, when they encounter problems in their neighborhood, with their teachers, with other adults in the community? We have a real fear of telling our black boys to call the police because for them calling the police over a simple altercation, over somebody hitting them, punching them, we can't tell them to defend themselves because you'll put them in prison. We can't tell them to call the police because the police could murder them.
 And there's no consequences for that. So where does that leave our kids? Where does that leave our community? Everybody's talking about they're tired of black people killing black people and taking things into their own hands. But what do we do? There's nobody to defend us. There's nobody to take up for us.
 It's nothing like wondering and losing a cousin, somebody I've known since he was three years old. He was he was when they say he was alive, he was alive. He was full of life. He was an awesome kid. I went to school for education. I had years of education. I've been working with kids since I was 13. And when I found out what happened to Qantas, there's nothing in my mind could ever make me picture Qantas as a threat to anybody. Right.
 And I've worked with kids who I've been like, oh, they're going to be a problem in all different cultures.
 And so it's easy to sit here and talk to you guys and everybody pour their hearts out and try to get you to understand. But you can't understand. You'll never have to close your eyes or your kids will never be at a party. And you have to worry about if some white police officer is going to shoot your son in the head at a party because they got a call of a noise disturbance. You guys will never have to go through that.
 And I guarantee if it happened, that police officer would immediately be fired, probably thrown in prison and lose his job if he was to kill one of your children for a perceived threat. When they're constantly killing our sons, our doctors, our lawyers, our police officers, our firemen, they're murdering them in the streets before they even get a chance. Most people...
 As teenagers, make mistakes. Nobody knows what happened leading up to what happened with Qantas. And nobody will ever know because he was murdered. And that's just the truth. And the sad part about it is because nobody across the nation seems to be taking any accountability, it's going to continue to happen to our little black boys. Because we can say we care.
 We can say we love, but those things are actions. When you care and you love, it's displayed by how you treat other people and the reform that you see in your community, and I don't see that anywhere. Thank you. Thank you. Catherine. Okay. Come on, sit beside him, Catherine. I'm Kawan Blackman, Kiwanis' uncle, favorite uncle. Oh.
 I was just sitting there. I think I wasn't going to say nothing, but a lot of things came across my mind. And I know when I'm driving, I get off work at 1 o'clock in the morning. I drive home. I live in Milwaukee. And I get so nervous about getting pulled over for no reason because it happened to me plenty of times. They see me, make a U-turn, follow me miles, and then decide to pull me over once they feel that I'm at my destination. Like, you know, he's home, he's feel free or whatever. Yeah.
 But they followed me because I was racially profiled. Now, when they stopped me, they questioned me, asked me what am I doing, which has nothing to do with a traffic stop, nothing. Well, she should come to me. It's like if he stopped you, he'll ask you for your license and insurance. You'll ask him what did I do wrong, and he'll tell you. I ask him what am I doing wrong. He never tells me nothing. He never gives me a ticket or nothing.
 I just wanted to see what I was doing, because I was a black man at the wrong time of night. And they see me as a gang member because I'm young, black, see our black teenagers as gang members, when your police officers are the real gang members, the real gang members. When I get home, I like to sit down and watch the crime shows, not the fake ones like CSI. I watch the real stuff, forensic files, cold case, first 48. And it's always two outcomes.
 life without or the death penalty. I've never seen that happen to a cop, ever, ever happened. My meter's running out, so that's all I've got to say. Thank you. My name is Catherine Kendall. I am a retired college professor, and I'd like to begin, as I always do. I'd like to know, by a show of hands, on your honor, how many of you have read The New Jim Crow by Michelle Alexander?
 Y'all have not done your homework. Not one of you has read this book. I am astonished. This book is a history of how we got to be how we are. I would like to donate this book to you directly, Ted Wheeler. I would like you to do your homework. I never met Qantas Hayes except through the words of his grandmother and his mother and his friends. And he is one of my children. I never met Ted Wheeler's daughter. And she is one of my children.
 Dan Salzman says his focus is well-being of children, so I figure Dan, like me, knows we all need the children. I am a biological mother, an adoptive mother, a grandmother, a great-grandmother, and I am an old queer woman who raised my children as a single mother, and I know poverty. I come to the mayor and the city council to fight for those most vulnerable to abuse by the police.
 our black, brown, and native children. There is terror in Portland. The terror comes to us in a black uniform that looks like something a robot would wear in a Transformers movie. The terror is an army of massive black boots, shin pads, knee pads, bulletproof vests, face shields, helmets. They carry tasers, pepper spray, guns, flashbang grenades, tear gas. Zero.
 and truncheons aimed at the fragile skulls of unarmed, undefended protesters and their children. Police beat and kill our children and are rewarded with weeks, months, even years of paid administrative leave. They get a bonus for killing our children. They get paid time off, time when they can go to their children's sports events and school concerts and graduations and weddings.
 Our dead children have no sports events, concerts, graduations, or weddings. The children of our dead children are worlds unborn, and they will always be unborn. We have a madman in the White House, a planet going up in flames, full of violence and hatred. We need our unborn children to save the world with love and wisdom.
 But we have failed them. Every one of our dead children is a horrible, unforgivable failure. So here's my recommendation. Strip the Portland police of the military equipment, guns, tasers, riot gear, riot vans, tear gas, pepper spray, flashbang, grenades that they use on us when we protest the deaths of our children. We are not an invading army.
 We are the grieving families of murdered children. We are justifiably angry, unarmed people demanding justice from a government that owes it to us. We put our bodies and our voices on the line because we have no weapons. And you meet us with militarized police. Tell the police not to terrorize our black children and our anarchist children.
 Tell them they are the violence in this society. If you cannot control the police, then please give the bulletproof vests and shin guards, the helmets and shields to our children. I'm going to say the names of some of our children killed by police in Multnomah County, where the mayor and this council have jurisdiction. I ask you to hear their names as if they are your children's names. And when I say their ages...
 Be aware they will never grow any older. Terrell Johnson, 24, two weeks ago. Gwyneth Hayes, 17, two months ago. Darius Johnson, 26, arrested for not having taillights dyed in custody. Keaton Otis, 25. Aaron Campbell, 25. James Jahar Perez, 28. Kendra James, 21. Jose Mejia Put, 29, 28.
 And because I know his mother, Christopher Kalonji, 19, killed in Clackamas County last year. And here are the names of the perpetrators. Andrew Hurst. Scott McAllister. Jeffrey Bell, now Captain of Internal Affairs. Jason Sary. Ron Frashour. Jim Dufresne. Cody Byrne, now an Assistant District Attorney. Andrew Pollis. Kyle Nice. And this is the name of the perpetrators.
 Christopher Humphreys, they are still around to threaten us. Most are still on the public payroll. In March, when protesters set up a camp outside Ted Wheeler's house, the mayor was understandably protective of his family. He didn't want his daughter to be frightened. We don't want that either. We don't want any children to be frightened.
 Pete Simpson said, speaking to the protesters, if you threaten someone and cause fear, charges of menacing, stalking, or harassment could be laid against you. I say to Ted Wheeler and Pete Simpson, if you allow the police to threaten our children and cause fear, if you menace our children, stalk our children, harass our children, you plant the seeds of violence. If you kill our children.
 Their blood and our grief is on your hands to the end of days. I hope the police commissioner sees every death at the hands of the police as the complete failure it is. Thank you. Rand, Rand, are you Rand? Rand Hamilton? Okay. I'm sorry. We only got ten minutes. I'll be quick. Okay.
 There's nothing that I can say that's going to – I would just like to echo everybody that's been testifying here that you guys need to make a change. And I just want to say the Asada Shakur chant, it is our duty to fight for our freedom.
 It is our duty to win. We must love each other and support each other. We have nothing to lose but our chains. We have nothing to lose but our chains. One more time.
 It is our duty to fight for our freedom. It is our duty to fight for our freedom. It is our duty to win. It is our duty to win. We must love each other and support each other. We must love each other and support each other. We have nothing to lose but our chains. We have nothing to lose but our chains. Thank you. For the record, Red Hamilton.
 I'd like to make a request. If we could get a new United States of America flag in here, I really appreciate it. I mean, you've been mayor for what now, five months, and you ain't got no new flag in here yet. And I appreciate it if you use B Company across the street to clean us, to keep the white flag clean. Your whites ain't whites, your reds ain't right, and can't nobody see no stars on the stripes. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Lenita James.
 Keep it simple. What you mean? Whatever you got to say. Lenita, talk about your friend Keith. So, I know these guys from church, their families. Obviously, a lot of us black people grew up in the same areas and whatnot. But the day that Quanis was killed was actually the day after my birthday. And I watched it on the news, and my daughter and his...
 Doesn't Qantas have a sister? What's her name? Nevaeh. My daughter's name is Nevaeh as well. They're friends. I had to deal with my daughter crying about her friend's little brother being killed. Go to my aunt's house to ask for some advice because I don't have a mom myself. My mom passed away. My cousin's birthday was February 9th. I told her that her friend had got killed. He had just left their house. This death affected all of us as people, but...
 Keaton was my friend. We went to school together. The day that he was killed was, it was, you can just, like, one of those things you can remember for the rest of your life, me seeing my friend's picture on the news. The odd thing about it is I have a little son, too. He's actually biracial. And just growing up thinking that, you know, we were invisible until I watched that my friend was shot. He had 23 bullets in him. They were pulling bullets out of his underwear.
 Well, his dad went every day, every month, to the site where his son was murdered at and died from a broken heart because he had no answers. Three years after his son died, he died from a heart attack, a broken heart. As a parent, could you imagine how that feels? Keaton never had no gun. I don't know, correct me if I'm wrong, if they ever produced a weapon, but he didn't have a gun.
 As a parent, not as a white person and a black person, as a parent, it's our duty to make sure that the rest of our children's lives, they're protected. They don't have to drive down the street and not be able to put their hoodie on because they are cold. Because that was his crime, having a hoodie on driving down the street by Lloyd Center in a nice newer car that his mom bought and let her son use. I'm pretty sure when your daughter is of age to drive, you're going to give her the keys to your vehicle.
 She's not going to have, you would want to, you're going to teach her how to drive, right? So you would want to think that your child's going to come home safe in your vehicle. And his mom didn't get that opportunity. I'm seeing that I might not get that opportunity with my son or my daughters. And it's time, like you guys stepped up and made that change. Like I was here on October 12th when we got beat up and kicked out of City Hall. I kind of just blended in with the media because I didn't want to get beat up and kicked out of City Hall.
 Like, we're getting accosted and abused and beat up for saying we matter too. We're not saying y'all don't matter. We're saying we matter too. We've watched so many of our friends and families and relatives go down this, you know, this school to prison pipeline. My brother's getting out, he's got 84 days on a 15 year bid. Because the DA thought it was a funny thing to make him sit in the county for three years before sending him to trial so he can catch the measure 11 charge after measure 11 took effect.
 stuff got to change in Portland I was born and raised here my grandma came from Birmingham she lived out in out there where the flood happened we've been here
 But we don't get respect like you guys get. We get kicked out and told to shut up and not, you know, I was just talking to the officers where a white man was told he could call us B-words and whatever he wanted because he had a first-member right to speak, but we had to shut up. We had to relocate. It's just got to change. Sorry, y'all. I'm out. Thank you. Irene. Irene Kalani. I am Irene Kalani, the mother of Christopher Kalani.
 I'm here to testify police violence in my family lives. 16 years ago, we came to USA looking for better life for our family. It was myself, my husband, and two boys. We came to USA believe that this country give us freedom and protection for our children from racism and violation. Children grew up. And nightmare start when my youngest son, Christopher, died.
 went to Portland City on October 21, 2015. He got stopped by cops because he looked suspicious for them. Big afro and clothes with hoodie. They want him show his ID, but at the same time they did not represent themselves. My son tells them they were not doing right, and they don't have reason to stop him.
 I knew my rights, he said. That makes them mad. They illegally arrest him, beat him in the head. As a result, he has PTSD. On January 28, 2016, Christopher has appointed court day for this previous event. He was scared to go, and as a result, he has a mental breakdown.
 911 was called for help. This time, Clackamas County Sheriff responded, Come and marry my son sitting on the window without clothes. Let him bleed to death in his room for four and a half hours. They destroyed our apartment. They married my son. They destroyed our family lives. And they get justified in their action.
 protect, and serve their mission. And as a mother, I want to know who they protect, who they serve. Police continue to destroy our lives, thousands of young people taken from us every year. And we are mothers for justice, demanding police reform and an indiction for medicops.
 Medi cannot be justified in any forms. And I'm speaking for all this mother. And today, I'm Christopher Colongi. I'm Bode Phillips. I'm Quanice Hayes. I'm Terrell Johnson. I'm Chase Thompson. I'm Chase Hammer. Thank you. Thank you. I hope just one more person, if you have the time.
 It's a presentation by Dan Handelman of Portland Cop Watch. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and members of City Council. I'm Dan Handelman from Portland Cop Watch. I wrote up some information about Portland police shootings in the black community for the anniversary celebration of Keith Otis' life on May 12th, seven years to the day since Otis' death.
 Copwatch has supported countless families who've lost their loved ones. They were here today to support the family of Qantas Hayes and I'm honored to be here. Thank you. Qantas was the first African American killed by PPB gunfire since Keat Notice. In the interim, there were the death in custody of Derris Johnson, the shootings and woundings of Juwan Blackman and Denoris McClendon, the missed bullet fired at Kevin Moffitt. Terrell Johnson, shot and killed May 10, has been described as being of African American heritage.
 Qantas was 17 and on his knees when officers thought he was going for a weapon, even though they had their sniper rifle pointed at him and thus had the advantage, even if he truly was armed. Johnson was 24 and houseless and perhaps living with mental illness. He allegedly displayed a utility knife and was killed. Over 10 years, the Portland police have shot or shot at 37 people and killed 22. Nine of the 37 were African American or 24% in a city that's 6% black.
 Five of those who died were African Americans, or 23%. Including Darius Johnson's death in custody, that means of 38 deadly force incidents, 26% of the subjects, and 26% of those who died were African American. Three other people identified as people of color were killed, were shot or killed, which means 34% of people shot, shot at, or killed by police were people of color in a city that's 77% white.
 We count at least six houseless persons, including Mr. Johnson, who have been killed since 2010, none of whom were armed with guns. It seems like a pattern of overreacting to weapons far less threatening than firearms if wielded by a poor person. As part of the settlement agreement with the DOJ, the PPB puts out quarterly reports on their use of force. The fourth quarter 2016 report shows 30% of those subjected to use of force were African American. Again, it's a city that's 6% black. This is about average.
 The most recent stops data for third quarter 2016 showed 13.5% of traffic stops were conducted against African-American Portlanders, also about average, and this is after 16 years of collecting data. Pedestrian stops are down from about 24% to 10%, but that information is likely incomplete since it shows only 59 people total stopped on foot over a three-month period. Certainly this doesn't include stop and talks, stop and frisks, or mere conversations.
 The more telling figure of whether drivers had contraband, most recently reported for June 2015, shows African Americans were found to have drugs or weapons in just 10% of searches, while white drivers were found with such contraband 31% of the time or three times more often. To violate the state law banning police profiling based on race, gender, housing status, and other criteria, an officer would have to say, the only reason I stopped that person was because he was black.
 The law says the police action must be based solely on the various protected classes listed. The Portland police rewrote their profiling policy using that state language. This needs to be changed. After all, if two cars with broken taillights go past a cop, one with a white driver and one with a black driver, and they only pull over the black driver, who can argue that is not racial profiling? Please create policies to ensure and end police shootings, racial profiling, and other human rights violations. Thank you very much.
 I'd like to thank you all for the time, and I hope we can all work together to make some changes. Because without changes, this city will not stand. You see right now, black people, white people, everybody standing together for the same cause.
 This is not a blurred, this is a blurred line. We're standing for the same cause. Come on, this is your citizens out here. Let's make some changes. Thank you. And thank you very much for sponsoring us. Thank you for being here. And again, we're sorry for your loss.