And let's see, Carla is on board, right? I see Keelan. There's Carla. Who's legal counsel today? Lori Kraut. Lori. Excellent. She doesn't join us very often, does she? All right, good morning, everyone. Welcome. This is the May 20th, 2020 morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, Carla. If you could please call the roll. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Mayor.
 Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Under Portland City Code and state law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the Council are attending remotely by phone and the City has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting. The public can also provide written testimony to the Council by emailing the Council Clerk.
 The Council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and they need to limit in-person contact and promote social distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety, and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your patience, flexibility, and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the City's business. First up, Carlos Communications, if you could please call the first individual.
 Do you want to have Lori read the rules? Oh yeah, I forgot about the rules, sure. That's okay. You wouldn't mind reading the rules of order and decorum? Certainly. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 The published council agenda at portlandoregon.gov slash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony. While the city council is holding electronic meetings, your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interfering or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being placed on hold or ejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thanks, Lori. Appreciate it. Carla, if you could please read. It looks like we only have one item for communications today. Correct. Item 375, request of Donna Cohen to address council.
 regarding St. John's Truck Strategy 2 project. Good morning, Donna. Good morning. I hope everybody's well. And thanks to the staff who did a great job setting me up for this morning.
 So in March, four members, four people who had been members of the stakeholder committee from the community, sent a report to PBOT and to council about an update on the project. And it's been two months, and I want to give you a status report on that. So if we look at the slides, the first slide, Keenan said I should tell you when...
 to show the first slide. So I'm gonna wait for that. I'm pulling it up. Okay. And I'm from St. John's, Donna Cohen again. I didn't say that at the beginning, so...
 There it is. Okay, so these are our speed cushions. A picture, as I say, is worth a thousand words. The one at the bottom is from North Willis, and every speed cushion I've seen in the city except those that are in Fessenden and St. Louis look like the one at the bottom.
 went wrong here, but this is the second time they've been put down. These obviously need to be corrected. So and why it happened in the first place, I don't know. Can we go to the next slide please? So our median islands
 Now on the right side, I'm hoping you can see the full slide. On the right side there should be a diagram from our final report showing the specs, which are 14 feet for the island itself, 16 feet if you add in the one foot on either side where the lane marking would be. And if you look on the
 drawing on the left side of the screen, there's an island that was done on Columbia Boulevard at about the same time. And you can see the clearance between the island and the line. And then if you look at the pictures in the middle, these are representative of almost every corner on every island that has been put on Fessenden St. Louis
 where the lane markings, if they exist at all, peter out before the end. And people have said, you know, these corners are very sharp to begin with, and then you don't have the lane markings.
 And you can see already some of them have been driven into. So the blue marks show where the lane markings should be. Again, why this happened? I have to wonder, does Peabody even bother to go out and look at the work that's done before they pay the contractors? So these need to be done according to spec. They're just, anyways. Lastly, next slide please.
 A commentary on this, we were told in the upper left, this is from the final report, that we would have these markings on the, in the bike lanes reminding people, the bicyclists to stop for PEDS. The reason we wanted them is we have this route, and you can see in the map, bisects our community of 15,000 people. 40% of the people above the corridor are kids, seniors, and people with disabilities.
 vulnerable people and now people are saying that they don't want to do this, we don't have enough bicyclists. The fact is this whole project is to change this corridor which again runs through the center of St. John's. So we think this is a backward looking approach. And by the way the total cost of
 to paint all of these markings would be between five and ten thousand dollars. And this is a multi-million dollar project. So I'm not going to go over the last slide, although I encourage you to look at it. It has some support information about accidents with bicyclists and what happens when a senior breaks a hip and the...
 So you can see that, that you know, the damage to a senior or a child can be great. So we think it's a small insurance policy basically. But, so that we were told we weren't going to get. We would like to ask about that and just point out this information. But the first few things... Can I ask you to bring it to a conclusion? Yes, absolutely. And I was there.
 You wanted to ask something? Oh, no. Oh, you wanted to ask me to bring it to a conclusion. Yes. Yes. I'm sorry. I get it. OK, well, I am at a conclusion. We hope that you folks will take steps and get these corrected. So. Great. I appreciate your testimony. Thank you for coming in. And thank you, by the way, for providing the written presentation. That takes a lot of time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Very good. That completes communications. Carl, is that correct?
 Yes, that's right. All right. Have any items been pulled off of the consent agenda? We've had no requests. Please call the roll on the consent agenda. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Could you go to first time, sir? Unfortunately, hang on. We're ahead of schedule. One moment. Let me find this. Can you go to 382, please?
 Yes, 382. Authorize a contract with Landis and Landis Construction LLC for the construction of the Southeast Hawthorne Boulevard pipe reconstruction project.
 Number E10369 for an estimated cost of $2,900,000. And colleagues, I'm obviously stalling till we can get to the appropriate time. Certainly this is a second reading. We've already heard a presentation and the opportunity for public testimony on this item. Is there any further business related to item 382? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty.
 I want to say how much I appreciate the work of the staff on this project and the innovative, creative thinking about moving this project up due to clearly less traffic on Hawthorne nowadays. I look forward to the conclusion of this project. I vote aye. Udaylee? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted and...
 I was trying to help you out, Mayor. I was trying to slow down. Why don't we do this? Do we have everybody we need for 383 from the housing bureau? Do we have Marilyn? Yeah, we have Dory. And Dory, is there anyone else you need for that presentation? Or do we have everybody we need for that presentation? It will just be me. Okay, good. Carla, please read 383. Okay.
 Approve and terminate limited tax exemptions for properties under the Homebuyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. Very good. Thank you.
 Colleague Portland, the Portland Housing Bureau, of course, administers the city's tax exemption programs. The Homebuyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program, otherwise more commonly known as the HALTI program, provides a 10-year property tax exemption for low to moderate income homebuyers, making home ownership more obtainable for families in Portland. Homebuilders apply for the tax exemption prior to starting the construction on the new homes. The Housing Bureau of
 approves builder applications through filing a resolution with city council several times throughout the year. 39 properties are being approved for the program through this particular resolution. When a developer sells a home over the price limit or to a buyer who does not income qualify, or when a home is not owner occupied during the exemption period as required, the exemption is then removed.
 Before an exemption is terminated, owners have the opportunity to appeal decisions made by the City. Within this resolution, 14 properties tax exemptions are being removed. And we have Dori VanBockel here, who is the Portland Housing Bureau Development Incentives Program Manager, who will be here to answer any questions we may have. Dori.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. This is Dori VanBockel, and as the Mayor stated about the program, PHB administers this on behalf of the City, and we verify and confirm homebuyer eligibility with each sale. We do ongoing compliance of owner occupancy of the programs through regular auditing, and we work with the Multnomah County consistently to do that compliance.
 Certainly I'm happy to answer any further questions about this action. Colleagues, any questions for Dori? Carla, is there any public testimony on a 383? No one signed up. Very good. Call the roll on the resolution, please. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? This is a great program and Dori Van Brockle and the team at the Housing Bureau do a great job of administering it. Aye. Wheeler?
 I vote aye. Thank you. Thanks, Dori. Appreciate it. The resolution is adopted. Back to times certain item 376 please, Carla. 376, accept the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission 2019 State of the City Preservation Report
 Colleagues, it's a pleasure to introduce Kristen Miner, who's the chair of the Historic Landmarks Commission, who's going to present the Commission's 2019 State of Preservation Report. We also have other members of the Landmarks Commission joining us today.
 For those who are watching who may not be familiar, the Historic Landmarks Commission is a seven-member, completely volunteer commission that advises city boroughs and the City Council on matters related to historic preservation and reviews new development in historic districts and alterations which potentially affect historic landmarks.
 The Commission typically meets twice a month for several hours at a time, and we appreciate their service and dedication to preserving the City's historic resources. Again, this is a huge time commitment and it is done completely by volunteers.
 As the Commission's report notes, preservation can be an important tool to aid our efforts for ensuring housing affordability and addressing climate change. As was recognized in the report, the practice of preservation has not always represented the larger community, and we look forward to hearing more about how this Commission intends to help us expand our scope for a more complete picture of Portland and its history.
 For instance, on April 27th, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability submitted final drafts of the African American Historic Resources multiple property submission, including a National Register Landmark nomination for the Billy Webb Elks Lodge to the National Park Service. Of Portland's more than 600 National Register Landmark properties, only three have been listed for African American Heritage awards.
 Recognizing the histories of all Portlanders is a critical goal for our Historic Preservation Program, one I strongly support, and I look forward to celebrating the Park Service's recognition of Portland's important Black history later this summer.
 Also, an individual National Register Landmark nomination has been submitted to recognize Portland's Darcelle Showplace. According to the nomination, quote, Darcelle is truly a cultural ambassador, offering not only an opportunity for an evening's lighthearted fun, but underpinning that entertainment value to become known as a tireless supporter.
 therapist, drag promoter, and philanthropist for the LGBTQ community in Oregon and the West Coast. The showplace is nationally significant for its role in the overall cultural shift towards societal acceptance of drag and gay rights. Good work, Kristen Minor, helping honor Darcelle as the national pioneer we know Darcelle is. Thank you for that. In addition, Building Rehabilitation
 has been proven to create jobs and keep dollars in the local economy. Even though it didn't pass, I'm proud that the Office of Government Relations advocated for a state rehabilitation tax credit during the 2019 legislative session.
 35 other states have state rehabilitation tax credit programs to support seismic upgrades, ADA accessibility, and energy improvements to historic buildings. I look forward to Oregon joining their ranks in the very near future, but this won't happen without a coordinated, timed, and unified strategy. And of course, the entire Portland City Council stands in support of this action.
 Now let's hear from the commission. I'll turn this over to Kristin Miner. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, and thank you so much for your introduction. I think you have already started with some of my talking points, but that's totally fine.
 Before I launch into my PowerPoint, I do want to acknowledge my fellow commissioners. And if that's okay, I'm going to go ahead and name them out. And I would ask all the commissioners to make sure you have your face showing and your screen on. So I'll start with Vice Chair Maya Foti. Maybe just wave. Yeah, there you are, Maya. And then Matthew Roman.
 Good morning, Matthew. Annie Mahoney. There. Great. Ernestina Fuenmayor. Good morning. Andrew Smith. Good morning. Morning. And Derek Spears. Excellent.
 And there is a little bit about all of our backgrounds in the State of the City report that we submitted months ago. It feels like years ago now. I also want to acknowledge, before I start the PowerPoint, the BDS land use staff. They're so invaluable. They really help us through every single case. We could not do our job without them.
 especially Hilary Adam, who literally holds our hands and prepares us for everything. Kara Fioravanti, who is the supervisor of the Design and Historic Design Review, and then Brandon Spencer Hartle, who's the liaison from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. He has an ability to see the big picture and puts in so much work to help us. So now I will see if I can share my screen. Great.
 Okay, my presentation today is necessarily just a little bit different than the State of the City report that we provided. We still have the same overall goals, but we definitely won't be seeking any funds from City Council this year, even for ongoing survey and historic resource inventory work, and we hope that can maybe resume next year.
 Instead, we hope to show you why preservation itself can help us get past the economic pain of this economic slowdown and address other long-term goals. The images selected here on this slide are all important long-standing cultural institutions. Some are businesses, some are non-profits.
 And I'm sure that I could have chosen, you know, spent time and really ranked them, but this is just top of my head here. And in each of their ways, each of their ways, these places hold community together. So really what I'm trying to get at is the concept that preservation is not just about buildings. It's also about giving communities a voice in identifying what's important and hopefully saving community institutions and businesses.
 Our newest commissioner, Derek Spears, has researched a program used in a few other cities called Legacy Businesses, something that we would love to look into for Portland. As you pointed out already, Mayor Wheeler, we are volunteers. We have a very broad range of duties and expectations. So first we review new construction in context. We tend to be made up of at least half architectural professionals.
 We review legislative code projects that affect development regulations. And development regulations are generally what we think of as the Portland Zoning Code or Title 33. And examples of that, I'm sorry for all the acronyms, but Historic Resources Code Project, the Design Overlay Zone Amendments, and Residential Infill Project.
 We review alterations to historic individual buildings. We review and provide recommendations on historic designations of all types, type 4 demolition requests, guidelines for historic districts, and numerous briefings about city-owned resources. And we advocate for preservation to and with the larger community, all trying to achieve the goals in the plan.
 And finally, we're a resource for City Council and bureaus. So in short, we dedicate time and energy to this work, not just because it's part of the comp plan, but because we see preservation as a strategy for helping to meet larger goals. And I'm going to talk a little bit more about those goals here in this presentation.
 So I'm going to start here with a few wins. And Mayor Wheeler, actually I already mentioned these, but I can't tell you how excited I am. It feels like a big shift to be able to highlight a few recent property designations that are tied to minority groups rather than to the most privileged Portlanders.
 So first off, the multiple property designation of African American resources. And thanks so much to Kathy Galbraith and the Architectural Heritage Center for much of this work. It really identifies many spheres of African American life and culture under which buildings or places might be individually recognized or designated.
 And then next, Darcelle 15, it's a gay-owned drag club that has been around since before Stonewall happened in New York. And this might put it in line to have national significance in the area of LGBTQ history.
 And then finally, the Billy Webb Elks Lodge, known at one time as the Black YWCA. This is the first historic designation directly under the African American MPD, or multiple property designation. So we're definitely hoping to see more places important in Black history in Portland be protected. So I'm going to cover the three major themes that are highlighted in our report.
 So first, under equity, I chose this image of Chinese students arriving here in the 1940s or 50s because it is Asian and Pacific Islander Month. We need to focus much more on preserving the places in history significant to minorities rather than the most beautiful mansions and the lives of wealthy white people.
 These typically are more modest places, but they're the most vulnerable to demolition. And as the pandemic shows us, people are still being discriminated against specifically for their ethnicity or color of their skin.
 Next, I want to address affordability. So even without any formal historic designation or tax credits or benefits that come with that, the oldest houses and apartments are already more affordable than anything recently built. That brings us to sustainability. These two images side by side are windows, but one of these windows will probably last all of 15 years.
 On the left, vinyl window, it's made from petroleum products, which is pretty much the least sustainable thing we can use. They also can't be fixed, so when they start to leak or degrade, they're pretty much trash.
 The other window was constructed over 100 years ago and can last another potentially hundred with maintenance. Maintenance saves durable materials, creates jobs, and most importantly keeps all of that embodied energy and carbon that was used in its materials, production, and transportation costs.
 So much of the green building movement focuses on the annual energy use of a building, but the energy consumed in the construction of a building or a window is 15 to 30 times the annual energy use. So think of windows as an analogy to an entire building. We all should be reusing things that were made to last, not throwing them away. So a little bit more of a deep dive into each of these topics.
 This is kind of an interesting comparison. So if you would please focus in on some of the changes in this area of close in central city, otherwise known as Lower Albina at one time. And let's see. I don't know if you can see.
 see, no, okay, I don't have the ability to use a pointer, but I think everyone can really look between the top and bottom slide and see the difference where I-5 occurred, you know, down sort of down the middle of the slide.
 If we zoomed out a little bit more, we could see the Memorial Coliseum. So in the lower slide you can see the two parking structures and then just cut off in the image is the rest of the Coliseum and then below that the Rose Quarter. All of that was once that very fine grain residential and businesses that you see in the upper slide.
 And then just cut off in the slide also to the north is the Emanuel Hospital area. So what was once a thriving community of people of color was demolished. But there's another thing I'd like to point out, given that this is Central City, and that's the sheer number of lots.
 that were cleared that have never been developed. They are literally vacant or surface parking lots. And if you look in that lower image between the Broadway and Wydler corridors there, again, Central City, this is what we got. Our elected officials handed out these lots when they were cleared to private interests.
 So we should be pushing for new housing here, both to recoup our investment in light rail and streetcar, and also to begin to heal the scars of what happened here. Of course, equity is not just an issue in Lower Albina. Preservation has a lot of catch-up to do across Portland to advocate for the designation and rehabilitation of remaining places important to non-white or minority communities.
 These stories are part of our story. Historic designation does have benefits and incentives that should be accessible to all. And the Landmarks Commission is committed to trying to make this happen. Affordability. The nation, state, and our city are about to be hit with a tidal wave of need generated by the pandemic, but it is worth remembering that historic preservation projects can literally put people back to work in strategic ways.
 Rehabilitation projects put more people to work than the construction of new buildings, even though the scale of each contractor's work tends to be smaller. The money earned is also much more likely to stay local.
 So the idea that we need to invest in better insulation, upgraded energy systems, and seismic stability is just as important now as it was before the pandemic. But now might turn out to be the best time to encourage this work with people that, I mean that is small business right here in Multnomah County needing work.
 Designating, protecting, and fixing up older buildings allows for access to federal tax credits for renovation work, so that money can be coming from out of our area. The Commission advocates for other ways to link financial and regulatory incentives aimed at the rehabilitation, seismic upgrade, and adaptive reuse of our historic and older buildings.
 Priorities include a state rehabilitation tax credit, which I hope we have another chance to think about, supporting changes in the Historic Resources Code project, and local preservation programs that support the adaptive reuse of old buildings with energy retrofit grants, easements, fee waivers, and other construction incentives.
 The best way to limit displacement, after all, is to keep people in their neighborhoods and give them a source of rental income. Finally, sustainability. We can't let this virus crisis or the ongoing housing crisis tempt us into giving up on our incredibly pressing climate problem.
 With the will to do it, we can push for reuse of buildings, incentivizing developers to remodel, upgrade, and add on to existing buildings. Raising older buildings results in a big hit on scarce resources. First, we're throwing away millions of dollars of embodied energy, and that's represented in that uppermost slide. The second image is a new house up on North Wygant.
 It cost well over $1 million. And of course, it's zero energy certified. It has solar on the roof, very high-end finishes. But the problem is its new materials alone put it deep in the red in terms of its carbon footprint. So aside from how it looks and how large it is, it's...
 Studies show that the embodied energy savings increased dramatically as a building life stretches over 50 years. So we can't build our way out of the climate crisis even with energy-intensive new buildings. The American Institute of Architects has called for a dramatic uptick in adaptive reuse projects.
 This is real. This is a real crisis. April just set the record as the hottest April on the planet ever. So the construction industry must change and it must do so quickly. We need leadership to make this happen. The last image is one of the simplest ways we as a city can move to embrace adaptive reuse projects and encourage more density in single-family areas.
 I did say this isn't the year to ask for money, and we won't, but we do still seek your support and leadership to help us do an effective job in all the decision making and advocacy that we do. I want to touch on historic districts and why they are important. Historic districts should visually convey a story, that is a reason why the properties are important.
 and not just the individual buildings. This is important for your understanding of, say, the Japantown-Chinatown Historic District shown on the left. This is Portland's only historic district important for preserving the history of an ethnic and cultural immigrant community.
 If a district, any district, starts to lose the sense of visual coherency, the district starts to feel just like anywhere else in Portland, with new tall buildings interspersed with older, smaller ones. The more disparity between the existing scale of the fabric and the central city plan allowances, the more conflicts there will be in land use cases. Cases that will almost certainly come to you as appeals.
 I ask for your support of reasonable height limits as called for in the comprehensive plan. The other issue I'd like to highlight about historic districts, especially residential ones as shown in the slide to the right, is our support of increasing density. Historic districts are not about keeping renters and smaller units out. In fact, we would like to be an active partner in finding ways to make sure more rental units and more density occurs.
 We have a request related to this aspect too, which is your support of the amendment on the table for a demolition disincentive for actual designated historic properties under the residential infill project. Though we'd love to see a disincentive for demolishing any old property, the amendment on the table is exactly in line with what got passed in the Better Housing by Design project.
 So finally here I'd like to highlight a couple of our chosen projects of the year so we can end with a few wins as well. I do have to mention we're troubled by the position of some city agency, some city agencies who effectively are allowing demolition by neglect on several historic properties in the public trust. But the private sector as shown here continues to demonstrate leadership, contextual understanding and creativity.
 So just quickly, the Halleck-McMillan building restoration, that's the winner in the category of rehabilitation project. And then under the category of new construction is the PAE living building, which is going to be going up soon, we hope, in the Skidmore Old Town District.
 So I think that effectively ends my presentation for now. I know we have four people who are ready to testify, several of whom have slides tacked on to the end of my presentation. So if it's okay, Mayor, I'll go ahead and close my screen for now and open it up.
 back up to share those slides when those testifiers come up. Yeah, Kristen, thank you for that excellent presentation. Why don't we go ahead and do that, colleagues? Let's hear from the invited testimony just so we can keep the momentum going here. And if you could hold your questions for Kristen until after we've heard from the guest testimony as well. All right, Kristen, thank you. I'll let you introduce your testimony. Okay. All right.
 I might need to ask for help remembering whether first on the list was going to be Kim Worland or Lou McLemore. And I guess I'm looking for either Hillary or Kimberly. I see you raising your hand. Perhaps you're ready then to go first. Thank you.
 Good morning members of the City Council and Historic Landmark Commission. My name is Kimberly Moreland and I'm on the board of the Oregon Black Pioneers and the Vasco Milligan Foundation also called the Architecture Heritage Center. I'm also a governor appointed member of the Oregon Heritage Commission. For over 30 years I have worked on a number of projects related to the history of African Americans in Portland and
 also involved in the preservation of historic African American buildings, including bus tours that highlight buildings related to African American history. I also worked on the cornerstone document and the multiple property documentation of African American resources.
 The Historic Landmark Commission's goals and priorities are critical to promoting a robust preservation program that emphasizes rehabilitation rather than demolition. At the HLC report stage, preservation matters. I would also say that preserving historic buildings related to African Americans provides many benefits to the Portland community.
 Prioritizing the preservation of marginalized communities tells a more inclusive Portland story. Preservation tours such as the MPD and the National Register of Historic Places designation allow African American historic resources to reap the benefits that the historic destination offer.
 The Golden West Hotel, Dean's Beauty and Barbershop, and the building that is currently occupied by Terry Funeral Homes, which was also occupied by Dr. Marshall's medical office and the Black Panther Dental Clinic, are just a few cultural and historic properties that should be recognized for their historic significance.
 Preservation tools can be utilized to save the remnants of African American historic properties and protect them from development pressures. Home Forward recently named their flagship affordable housing project after Louisa Flowers.
 The Allen flowers, Louisa and Allen flowers lived in the Elliott neighborhood. The Allen flowers arrived, Allen flowers arrived in Portland in 1865 and his wife, Louisa arrived in 1882 when she married Allen Irvin. The couple had four children and became civic leaders and built several homes in Lower Albina in the Elliott neighborhood in 1885.
 After Home Forward Building, named in Louisiana honor, was being constructed, the Flowers, two remaining homes built in 1885 on Schuyler Street, was being deconstructed and demolished. In conclusion, I think it's important that the City Council supports the Historic Landmark Commission effort to realize equity-driven outcomes in the preservation movement.
 Brent Lent, an executive director of the African American Cultural Heritage Action Plan, says it's best. Preservation is about community. Each site stands as a historical indicator of our complex presence. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much, and thank you for your service. We sure appreciate it. Thank you. Next up, I think, is Lou McLemore. Yes, good morning, everyone.
 My name is Lou McLemore. I'm the exalted ruler for Billy Webb's Elks Lodge. I've been the exalted ruler there for the last seven years. Billy Webb's Elks Lodge has been one of the, I guess you can say, a centerpiece of the black community for the last 85 years.
 And we are presently, well, actually we're presently closed, but prior to that, we have been active in the community doing some coach drives. We hold a...
 an annual party for the kids, for Halloween, for Easter. We do a number of different things. This year, our project had started out to be sickle cell anemia in partnership with a coalition of black men. And those are some of the projects that we're currently working on. We had a shoe drive that was going to start in April, but...
 Again, that's been knocked out. But those are some of the types of things that we do at Billy Webb's Elks Lodge. It's been a little different trying to do a nonprofit with the CLVD-19 going on right now. We're looking at trying to get
 ourselves situated to be reopened and be able to get back into the game again. We do a lot of different parties. We do a lot of different... We hold a lot of different events. We rent out our building to the community so that events can be held there. So it's a...
 Billy Webb's Elks Lodge has been a real central part of the community. But in this situation,
 We have not been able to do anything that we would normally would be doing. I can tell you that we were the headquarters for the Vanport flood for the community. Red Cross has been in our building also.
 It used to be the USO, just a little background history on it. It used to be the USO for the Black soldiers. So we've been a real integral part in the community and we're still trying to be that at this point. Thank you, Lou. Thank you. Okay, next up, I believe it's you, Brian.
 And I'm going to go ahead and share my screen so that I'm showing your slides, Brian, and I probably won't be able to see you. So just, you know, let me know when I need to change slides. See if this will work again. Sounds good.
 Thanks, Kristen. And good morning, City Council and commissioners. My name is Brian Emmerich. I'm the principal of Emmerich Architects and former chair of the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission. And I want to thank you guys all for your time and holding space for this important conversation in our community around preservation and the goals with that.
 I'm going to talk briefly about unreinforced masonry buildings through a case study that is a project we recently completed in the Portland Chinatown District at Northwest 4th and Davis. It's the Oberlin Warehouse project, which you see the before picture there on your screen. This is visible now completed through that Chinatown gate shot you saw earlier in the presentation. It's only two blocks away, so it's quite a turnaround. It's hard to imagine a building.
 in worse shape than this. It was built in 1889, most of it abandoned in the 1960s with the exception of the oldest running strip club in the ground floor when we started the project. And now go ahead and flip the slides, Kristin, to the next please. This is a couple of the shots of what it looked like beforehand. You can flip to the next one.
 And this is once it was an important Chinese tenement housing before in its previous history.
 And this is the after shot. Now it's an anchor in the community. It was a full seismic upgrade. It's about 40,000 square feet, including the basement. And the costs without tenant improvements were about $4 million, so around a little over $100 a square foot. And the seismic component of that was about $50 a square foot.
 So it shows these projects are really achievable and they add a huge contribution to the community. This was done speculatively by the Urban Development Partnership Group and ended up attracting MooveL, which is a leading technology transit firm who's built the entire building and actually incentivized
 Preservation of the neighboring building, you see the white one to the west, the Crown Zeller Botanics, which also subsequently received a full upgrade and Mubelle actually took space in that building as well. So it really became a turnaround story of how to incrementally start changing these neighborhoods in need and preserving our cultural heritage in our community for forward generations. Thank you.
 These projects are challenging because, you know, with height and zoning density increased, even the best preservation outcomes don't exceed what you can do with financial rewards with new development. So the problem is that with the new development and the bigger buildings, we lose a piece of our memory and our cultural heritage. So it's really important that we think about overall goals with our community when we're thinking about these kinds of problems and how to solve them.
 So with that, there's a takeaway at the beginning of the presentation if you want to look into more information on these projects and issues. But I'll stop there. Sorry, Chris, I don't know if you want to slide. Let's see. Okay, I think... These are the finished product. There's kind of... Yeah. Upgrade stuff there.
 Okay, that was your last slide. Yeah, that's the last slide there, yeah. Okay. I think I promised them at one point the last time I visited that I someday would walk across that beam at the atrium. I haven't quite worked up the courage to do it yet, but it's still on the bucket list. Yeah, I'm sure you won't be the first man with it. I was assured that I would have been the first, although I didn't believe it for a minute. That's great. Okay, yeah.
 So after Brian, my next presenter or testifier is Paul Schwert. And I've got some slides for you. So if you can hear me, just let me know. I can hear you. Can you hear me? Okay.
 All right. Good morning, everyone. I'm Paul Schwer. I'm the president of PAE Engineers, and we're really excited about this new project you're about to hear about. It'll be the Portland PAE's Living Building. For those of you who don't know, PAE, we're a 350-person engineering company that was founded in Portland back in 1967. If you go to the next slide.
 Our site is the corner of Southwest First and Pine in the Skidmore Old Town District, which is a really cool part of town close to the river. A lot of development is happening in that area now, so we're really excited about this community. If you go to the next slide. This is the Portland National Bank that was built in the 1880s and was demolished in the 1950s and turned for some reason into a surface parking lot.
 So historic preservation wasn't what it is now. So if you go to the next slide.
 So that parking lot is now going to be turned into our new living building and we really appreciate the openness of the Historic Landmark Commission. They showed during the design of this building and the input they provided with it. You know, their approach to both preserving the past but being forward thinking about what's important for the future of the city is a really kind of great balance.
 And Justin Brooks from ZGF, who is the designer of this project, he said the goal of our project was to design a building that is of its time, but timeless in its response to the historic context. So how do you balance that, a brand new building in a historic area? If you go to the next slide.
 So on top of all that, we wanted to design it as a living building. So this building will be net zero energy, net zero water, net zero waste, and carbon negative. Essentially, this building will meet the city's 2050 climate goals 30 years ahead of schedule.
 And if that wasn't challenging enough as engineers, we always like to add things on top of it. It will be designed to seismic category four, which is the same as fire stations and hospitals. So it will survive pretty large seismic events. Next slide.
 we hope it will last 500 years. Part of the design was based on the golden ratio, which you see in historic architecture in the Fibonacci series, which is both in historic architecture and in nature. And those ratios that are then applied to the facade of our building, one of the reasons it's so appealing is these systems we see in nature as human beings were kind of attracted to those ratios. Next slide.
 One of the things that we worked on with the Historic Commission was the detailing of the top of the building. The tops of the historic buildings typically have some type of extra detailing. This is what ours will look like on the fifth floor. The Landmarks Commission was also open to new materials as long as they were high quality. There was some fiberglass windows in there, which is the very long-lasting windows. Next slide.
 And we chose this part of town because of the zoning. We're building a 75-foot tall building, which is the max zoning area. And since we need solar access to generate energy for our building, the three or four blocks to the south of us are all part of the historic district. And they also will protect our solar access. Next slide.
 So we hope next summer that many of you will be able to join us in a party in this space. Once the building is built, it is officially under construction. We're a hole in the ground now, and next summer will look like this on the fifth floor. And the final slide.
 And just to remind everyone, this is a developer-led, privately financed project. It's the first developer-led living building in the world. We hope it is a replicable model that other buildings in Portland and throughout the nation and the world can follow of carbon negative projects that are new. And we had a fantastic design and construction team to do it. And we're really excited to see it come out of the ground and appreciate the support of the mayor and the city council during the review permit review process. So thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Does that complete the invited testimony? Yes, that was the last one. You're the last one? Okay, you wrapped it up well. Colleagues, any questions for any of our panelists? I see Commissioner Hardesty has her hand raised. Commissioner? Commissioner?
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank all of you for what an incredible presentation. I actually am always fascinated with the old pictures of Portland and kind of how sometimes we get it right. And sometimes we don't quite get it right. But the history lesson is always fascinating. I really want to appreciate Lou from Billy Webb Lodge because, you know,
 I think Lou was very modest when he talked about the role that the Elks Lodge has played in the African American community for so, so long. The NAACP used to meet there when it couldn't meet anywhere else. Lou talked about being a club for
 soldiers who needed a break coming back from wartime. And I have to say, I am just so thrilled with the renovation of Billy Webb's Elks Club and how it has continued ever
 its historic mission and really being a centerpiece and a center and a centering for the African American community here. So much love and respect for that. Kimberly, the work that you have done over the years have just been pretty remarkable. You've been so consistent and trying to preserve a history that is.
 is disappearing before our eyes. And so I also want to thank you for your work, not just with this commission, but with all the other work that you've done around the state to preserve our history. I'm fascinated by the presentation by Brian Kemp,
 Emmerich, because Brian, what you talked about was a was also a private development opportunity that really was focused on preservation and making sure that we did not lose the culture of the area that that building was renovated in.
 We always hear that in the development world, it's about building as quickly as efficiently and getting the most out of whatever it is you're building. How do you create the will to?
 to have investors come in and look at a property and make them think that the investment for preservation is better and greater than just tearing it down and building some steel something or other in its place.
 That's a great question, Joanne. I think it starts with having a visionary developer who can get where you can go with that. I think that like for Mubelle, who ultimately realized the final potential in that building, that's what they were looking for. And that's something that Portland offers. We've got this huge historic footprint relative to.
 to our community size and those types of creative kind of cutting edge companies aren't looking to be in a class A office space. They're looking for something more unique. And that's really where you're selling kind of the value of the finished product is, you know, it's over a century old and it's got all these layers of history and culture and it's a really rich experience. And you're looking for the right visionary who connects with that, I think, because then you get really exponential value out of that. It's not something you can replicate from the building.
 And it's certainly not as the city. I mean, I, how do you think the city council, maybe I'll change my question a bit. How do you think the city council can be more helpful in these kind of conversations early on so that we are in fact looking at the very best use of buildings rather than just
 Somebody comes in, we give them a permit and off they go. How can we be more helpful as a city council? Because I have to say, I'm a big fan of old buildings. I'm a big fan of old wood. And I know that a lot of the new properties, they look good, but they don't have that feel of history. Right.
 So what can we do as city council to help actually elevate the work that you've done and others have done as part of this commission?
 Well that's a great question also and I think you could have a more in-depth conversation with the Landmarks Commission currently but I would say you know starting with like the Overland Warehouse that's an unreinforced masonry building we have about 1800 of those in our inventory many of those are not actually historically designated even though they are historic I call them historic with a lowercase h
 and in Oregon it's really hard to get property designation on the register without owner consent. In fact it's impossible so that's actually been a big movement is we're one of the only only I think two states in the nation that don't have that so without that ability and kind of lobbying at the state level for some of these things and Mayor Wheeler mentioned the
 historic tax credit, some of these financial incentive things where Portland is a powerhouse and has the most historic buildings in the state. We can really be advocates at that state level to get support on that bigger area. And then also just realizing that, you know, the Landmarks Commission has been lobbying for since I was on the Commission the whole eight years and still now for this historic resource inventory without knowing what our resources are.
 in the community, it's really hard to be able to start crafting legislation around how are we going to protect these strategically. So I think those are some things to be thinking about with that and just knowing that, you know, these buildings represent really part of our community's collective memory and our identity. And we need to hold on to that. That's super important to who we are as a city and our culture and our people here. So.
 recognizing that value first and then working on strategies of how to support and incentivize that I think is probably the key. Thank you, Ryan. That was really helpful. It made me think of Geneva's barbershop has just announced after 30 years that it's going to close.
 talk about a corner that's also been the center of African-American activity, whether you got your hair did there or not, or you just kind of hung out because you knew that there were other people that look good that were hanging out near that location. I am curious, maybe Kristen's the appropriate person to answer this. What is the timeline normally to get a building designated as a historic site?
 And are we too late or too early in the process to start talking about how do we get Geneva's that designation? Thank you for mentioning that. I also saw that in the paper and I included an image in my very first slide. I don't know if you noticed it. Okay, great.
 So it typically can take up to a year. And part of the problem there is that there's a state advisory board that only meets three times a year. And so, you know, trying to get the timing of that and show up in front of them and then get their approval to go on to, you know, National Park Service is what sort of takes the long time.
 But, you know, that timeline, depending on when the meetings fall, could certainly be compressed to maybe as little as eight months. It takes a little while.
 Well, let me know how I can be helpful because I think if we don't try, it won't happen. And so we should just figure out what we need to do to at least put the effort in because I would imagine that once again, once it's gone, it's gone. And that legacy and that history will also be gone.
 So I'll just stop there. I do have one more question. I'm fascinated by Paul's building, the one on Southwest First and Pine. And you talked about this as a living building, zero energy, zero waste.
 a building that will put the city of Portland, I wrote a note, 30 years ahead of our climate goals, right? That's a really bodacious statement to make.
 And I'm all for foundation statements, right? But I want to know, like, the devil's in the details about a living building that you are setting yourself up to be this, like, 30 years ahead of the time. How is that going to happen in this building?
 Thanks, Commissioner. I love being called bodacious. That's fantastic at a city council meeting. Yeah, so basically, you know, some of the goals that the city has are to be climate neutral by 2050. So powered by 100% renewable energy and energy.
 So what our building is, it's all powered by renewable energy. So going forward, it's net zero energy. As we build it, we've actually calculated the carbon intensity of every piece of lumber in that building, every piece of concrete. And then we do a one time offset, hopefully within the Oregon region, offsetting the emissions that it took to build the building.
 And then going forward, since we're actually going to be generating more energy than we need, we're carbon negative from that point on. So if you think of it from a carbon standpoint, from day one, we'll be neutral and then go down. We are collecting all the rainfall on the roof of the building. That will be the water that's used in the building. Essentially, this building is trying to mimic the ecosystem that was in Portland pre-development. You know, go back 250 years, there were no buildings here.
 What happened? A tree growing in that exact location had the budget, its budget was the sun and its rainfall was its water budget. Can we design buildings that meet within that budget? And that's the goal for this building and the living building challenge in general.
 I am loving this. I am hoping that some of the expertise that has been brought together for that building will also help as the Portland Clean Energy Fund starts working on what does our energy future look like. I see some real opportunities for some innovation and creativity. And so once again, thank you all. I can geek out on this stuff all day, so I'm gonna...
 I'm going to politely just step aside and let my other colleagues ask questions. But I want to once again really appreciate this extraordinary work that you continue to do and that you do it from a position of love. Because since we don't pay any of you to do the work that you're doing, it is clear that you are driven by something other than love.
 a financial return on this work. So thank you all very much for this really important work and for this fine report that you presented today. Very good. Colleagues, others, Commissioner Fritz, your next stop.
 Thank you, Maren. Thank you for the fabulous presentation. My goodness, I really enjoyed it, appreciated it, felt it. It was really, really fabulous. I'm hopeful that you will all come back when we do the Central City 2035 re-adoption and in particular the Heights in Old Town Chinatown Historic District. And I'm just wondering, since...
 the proposal is still kind of being formulated. Would anybody like to comment on the heights in the historic district? Commissioner Fritz, are you asking if any of the Landmarks Commissioners wish to comment or are you asking your fellow city councillors?
 Oh, I'm sorry. You're the expert. I was asking the Landmarks Commissioners. As I say, you know, the proposal will be coming to Council, and so it would be helpful to have, I do hope you'll all testify, you'll each one testify at the hearing, and also would appreciate any input that you, Kristen, would like to give right now, or if anybody else would like to give it. Okay. Thank you so much. Just to touch on that briefly, it's the Landmarks position that, you
 All the work that was done by various city groups and representatives of that neighborhood, you know, that was hammered out over several years, was kind of immediately...
 put aside and there was a, I have to say, a spot zone put on a particular lot. I understand it's a, you know, it is a lot without any development on it, but we still perceive that as being done without the necessary understanding of what that historic district really is, which, you know, it's only two blocks wide, you know, five blocks long, it's very small.
 So we would advocate for the Central City 2035 to go back to those heights that were developed as part of the community input of Central City 35. Thank you. I have a couple of questions while my colleagues are thinking if they have others. As you all know, Portland, like every other West Coast city, is growing. Right.
 But unique to Oregon, of course, is the urban growth boundary. And this protects our farms, it protects our forests, and it obviously encourages us to build walkable neighborhoods. And I guess my question ultimately for you is, in what ways can you see the Historic Landmarks Commission helping the city to manage this growth in both a sustainable as well as an inclusive manner? Sure.
 This is a unique aspect of Oregon. It's unique to development. It creates these pressures around both protection versus managing growth. In what ways can you help us both in terms of inclusivity as well as sustainability?
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. If I have to talk about historic districts alone, which, you know, obviously we advocate for any old building outside of historic districts, but within historic districts, a lot of which are solely residential, we are strongly advocating for ways to increase density. And we do support the...
 the idea that there be allowances for far more residential density as proposed in RIP. But we are concerned that, you know, once you start sort of setting some of these very large
 I guess I'll say that some of them are out of context. So we're looking really for ways to be able to change code and that might allow for us to put say four or even five units within some of these very large older buildings that right now are single family homes, you know, maybe just an older couple are rattling around in there.
 We could really help do more if we addressed codes and if we saw incentives and encouragement for adapting backyard garages and for putting up ADUs. So we can do more on all three of those fronts. And I don't think you'd find any disagreement on this city council and you
 certainly wouldn't find any disagreement with me. I strongly support each and every one of those strategies that you've mentioned. So I think there's ways for us to continue to work together
 And I'd really like us to continue to partner down in Salem for some of those incentives that we talked about early. Oregon's out of step with other states. And as you have noted in the past, Kristen, in previous testimony, Portland actually is the home to many of our historic structures today.
 And we know that Portland is going to continue. We'll get through the economic crisis and eventually we'll come out on the other side and we'll go right back onto that growth curve that we had previously. And there will be a lot of pressure.
 around development and redevelopment. And without those adequate, both protections on one hand, and I know Commissioner Fritz has been very, very forceful and convincing in her arguments on the protection side, but we also have to think about the incentive side. And I feel like sometimes that part of the discussion gets short shrift. So I thank you in particular for bringing it up. My second question is just,
 An acknowledgement, first of all, we recently received a report from Bureau of Planning and Sustainability titled The Historical Context of Racist Planning.
 And that was provocative, and it was provocative intentionally because we wanted the community to know and to understand that there is a history of systemic racism in this community that bleeds over into the current, into the present day. And I know I sound like a broken record when I say this, but it traces back to very harmful...
 and intentionally discriminatory practices in our community. And it was done to exclude communities of color, particularly people who are Black and Indigenous. It separated those populations in particular, but not exclusively, from homeownership opportunities, from the opportunities to create intergenerational wealth opportunities.
 and frankly to protect the public health and the environmental stability of the areas in which those individuals live.
 You raised that again today, and I'm really pleased with the fact that we do raise these issues intentionally. But in what ways can your commission help the city work to remedy some of those harms that are legacy harms that to a great degree still exist today? How can we work together to address those issues, which you raised as part of this report?
 Mayor Willer, there's one thing in our report that we have touched on, which is the idea that as a commission, that we began doing active outreach work.
 to especially inner albina communities of color and see if we can really achieve a sort of ground up understanding of what places are still important to the community, what places we can help to preserve or to commemorate in some cases if something is already gone. And I think in that way,
 we can really, you know, maybe step back and let, you know, let other voices take charge of, you know, what is important, really. Do any other commissioners, you know, I'm sort of monopolizing the conversation. If anyone else would like to, you know, help add to this conversation, I would love it if you're... I think Derek has some thoughts. Yeah.
 Great. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and City Council. This is Commissioner Spears. I'm a historic landmark commission. Earlier in the presentation,
 Chair Minor talked about the Legacy Business Program, and I think it's one of those opportunities we have to take a step from other cities. San Antonio and San Francisco implemented these in 2013 and 2018 in different phases. We know preservation has long been tied to ownership, and this program has helped those who have not been able to own their locations.
 They also created what they call was a legacy business preservation fund that provided grants to both business owners and property owners, which has been crucial during the COVID-19 crisis. I think what this program does is it helps to find those businesses that are also part of the communities to help establish and keep those communities whole, because a lot of times what happens in development is that businesses,
 the businesses are lost along the way too, as those businesses don't own those areas. So I think this is one of those programs that would be beneficial in this conversation, along with a lot of other things that we need to come up with to continue to push this narrative forward on how we can be more instrumental in how we help preserve and also help grow this city. Thank you, Derek. I appreciate that response very much.
 And then I had Paul, I share my colleague's interest in the design. I learned something new today. I knew that there were sort of these classic lines and dimensions to architecture
 But I didn't always understand the direct tie to nature. I thought that was really fascinating. So I appreciate sort of the quick introduction to architectural design and it actually makes me want to learn more. I mean, that was fascinating to me. Careful, that is coming from an engineer. So there's architects on this call that know technology.
 10 times, 100 times what I know, but it's fascinating to me too as an engineer because we try to mimic nature in our designs. Well, it's great, and when I saw the building, I commented to my colleague, well,
 Wow, I love that, but I really couldn't articulate why I did. And so maybe you helped answer some of that question. There's just something about the way our brains work and the way we think and the way we view dimensions in nature that's innate. And I appreciate you connecting that to what maybe helps us view one building as good architecture and another as bad architecture, even if we can't articulate why we think that.
 So that to me was sort of a big aha moment. So thank you for that. And I'm excited to see that even in the midst of the COVID economic downturn, we're seeing a renewed interest in the use of natural construction materials,
 your building is a fabulous example. And of course, there was another one just announced recently on the east side that's going to be a CLT building. And of course, the city council's support and framework, which unfortunately didn't work out given some of the financing issues. But I'm hopeful that as we recover, we'll continue to think about our environmental resilience strategies. And I appreciate the way you approach your project.
 I had a question for Lou. Lou raised something that was really interesting to me around the Elks Lodge. Lou, can you just give me a couple of points? How are you guys doing during this COVID crisis? I assume you're not meeting. Does that put you and the Elks in any danger of not being able to hang on to that facility? Or how are you managing?
 getting through this immediate COVID crisis? Well, right now we're pretty much, we're hanging in there, but we will need some help to get some things done. I've looked at the PPP program, that can't do anything for us because of the payback situation and us being a nonprofit and not having any thing coming in in the last couple of months makes it really kind of difficult.
 So we're going to struggle getting open, depending upon what the rules are. And that's going to have a lot to do with how we can reopen.
 All right. Well, I want to make sure you don't lose control of that facility. So I may have a member of my team reach out to you and connect with you and just I'd like us to stay in the loop and make sure that we're, we obviously don't have unlimited resources or capacity, but the good news is we all know people who do. So I appreciate that. And I also want to acknowledge it's not only a great facility, it's been used for a really altruistic purpose.
 and community-based purpose. And I want to thank you for your passion, your commitment to service to the community. My pleasure. Thank you, sir. I don't have any further questions unless any of my colleagues do. I will entertain a motion and a second at this time to accept the report. I'll move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty. We have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll. Okay.
 Curtis T? Some days I'm just giddy to vote yes on opportunities. And today is one of those days. I want to thank you, Mayor, for your last comment regarding the Elks Lodge. I am going to also make my staff available to help in any way that we can, because we cannot afford to lose any additional institutions in the city of Portland. So I am very happy to vote aye. Haley? Haley?
 Well, thank you for the report. I really appreciate the focus on equity. Chloe, you muted. There we go. Thank you for the report. I want to appreciate the focus on equity, affordability, and sustainability as high priorities in the report.
 I appreciated the mayor's comments and I'm also very intrigued by the possibility of pursuing restorative justice through zoning and historic designation.
 Acknowledging how racist public policies have harmed the Black community in the past is great, but it's not enough. And I strongly believe that we have to pursue remedies that deliver tangible benefit to property owners and to the larger community. And preserving those spaces is absolutely vital. I was also very excited to hear you mention support for legacy businesses.
 I've actually researched the legacy business program in San Francisco and I have been advocating for a similar approach as well as the reestablishment of the Small Business Advisory Council, which is two steps Portland could take to recognize and better serve our local small businesses.
 Please count me in for conversations on that, as well as the remedies we're talking about today. I'm very happy to vote aye. Great.
 Thank you, I was diving from my unmute button. This is one of my favourite presentations of the year. It's one that I will definitely be tuning into next year from home. Well, I am from home right now. Thank you to the Landmarks Commission. Very professional presentation. Absolutely brilliant.
 First class, it always is, but this one I think you've actually outdone yourself and very timely. And the good news, colleagues, is that we have some opportunities coming up that we can actually make a difference on the values and principles that have been stated by the Landmarks Commission and which each of you have endorsed with the expanding opportunities conversation tomorrow, with the Central City 2035 conversation, with the regional
 residential infill project amendment that Chair Minor mentioned to avoid incenting demolition of historic buildings. These are all things that we as the council can do to actively make a difference and for the most part,
 but pretty much they don't cost any money and they don't inhibit density or housing. They enhance it and they can certainly further our climate action goals. We're about to be discussing a resiliency resolution and the mention of why the height limits open up.
 gives certainty that the solar access will still be there. We don't have solar access requirements in the zoning code anymore. And so height is the only way that buildings can be, height limits is the only way that buildings can know what to expect.
 And so, again, these are practical things that we, the council, can choose to do or not do. And I hope that each one of the Landmarks Commissioners and those who testified today will have enjoyed the experience of dialing in and being able to do so from home. And we'll sign up to testify on the other projects that are coming up because it's so very important. Thank you so much. Thank you also to Hilary, Adam and Karen.
 Cara Fioravanti in the Bureau of Development Services, along with Brandon Spencer-Hartle. Thanks to Claire Adamsick and Tim Crail on my staff. We very much appreciate all of the work that's been done. Hi. Wheeler.
 Well, I want to thank you all for a fantastic and provocative and really interesting report. That was great and I'm energized by what I heard and the passion that you all exude is contagious. So thank you for the great work you do. I always learn something new when I hear these presentations and today was certainly no exception. Really really proud of the work you're doing on behalf of the community.
 I also want to thank the Bureau of Development Services, Cara Fioravante and Hilary Adams for working to make sure that the Commission is diligently managed and overseen. I appreciate all the hard work and recognize that this report does in no way encapsulate all of the really, really tough decisions and conversations that are happening under the Commission's purview.
 And I want to thank each and every one of you personally for your dedication and your leadership. I am very happy, and this is an easy yes vote.
 I am actually already looking forward to the DVD version and the movie version of this coming out soon, and I'll look forward to next year's presentation. And we have a lot of work to do together in the interim. So thank you all. Happy to vote aye. The report is accepted. Terrific presentation. Thank you all for participating today. Next up, Carla. And it looks like we're on time here for next time certain item is 377.
 Amend the City of Portland Employee Benefits Program to reflect necessary plan design changes as recommended by the Labor Management Benefits Committee and as administratively required by the Bureau of Human Resources for the City's plan offerings beginning July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021.
 Well, the bar has been set very high for interesting and provocative conversations this morning, and I hope this will be equally interesting and provocative. Every year, colleagues, as you know, the city's Labor Management Benefits Committee reviews the employee benefits programs and provides recommendations for any necessary changes. The first ordinance would approve... You know what, Carla? Yeah.
 No, never mind. The first ordinance would approve the fiscal year 2021 benefit plan document addressing recommendations by the Labor Management Benefits Committee in addition to state and federally mandated changes. The second ordinance would approve additional funding for employee assistance program services provided by Cascade Centers to continue services for city benefits plan participants.
 Cascade Centers. It's been the city's EAP provider since 2011. The Employee Assistance Program is a comprehensive service that provides resources and confidential consultation on a variety of personal issues city employees may be experiencing. It's designed to provide
 intervention to promote employee health and wellness. The council will take these ordinances separately, but I understand that the Bureau of Human Resources will provide comments to both ordinances during their remarks. Kathy Bless, Deputy Chief Human Resources Officer, and Michelle Taylor, Benefits Supervisor, are on the call to walk us through the ordinances and, um,
 I'll let you guys take it from here. Thank you. Absolutely, Mayor. Thank you so much. And good morning, Commissioners and the Mayor. Kathy Bless, Chief Human Resource Officer with the City of Portland. I hope that we can be as provocative as the prior presentation. What I would like to do is to turn over...
 the remarks to Michelle Taylor. She is the one that has completed all of the work getting ready for the annual enrollment that is currently underway and also in planning and working with the LMBC. So I will turn it over to Michelle. Kathy, before you turn it over to Michelle, Carla,
 I had one little oversight here. Could you also read the time certain item 378? That's the companion ordinance to this. And I'm sorry, I just missed that in my original record keeping here.
 378. Approve $500,000 in additional funding for the Cascade Centers, Inc. contract administered by the Bureau of Human Resources Health and Financial Benefits Office for Employee Assistance Plan Services through June 30, 2021. Thank you. Sorry, Michelle, to interrupt. Go ahead, please. No worries. Thank you so much. Thank you, Kathy, for the introduction.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Michelle Taylor, Benefits Supervisor within the Bureau of Human Resources, and I'm here this morning to talk about our two ordinances
 No pressure whatsoever for my first time presenting to council, so that's a tough act to follow, but I'll give it a try. Before diving in, I'd love to take a moment just to kind of highlight some of the great work that's been provided by the benefit team during this COVID-19 pandemic. Our team implemented the new Families First Coronavirus Response Act and the city's COVID Catastrophic Leave Program.
 These required a tremendous amount of additional work on staff who tirelessly ensured accuracy in administration and provided education to employees so they can make informed decisions concerning their well-being. Our Occupational Health and Well-Being team has been at the forefront of this pandemic, working with the ECC, bureaus, unions, and leadership.
 Very early on, our occupational health and well-being manager was involved in monitoring outbreaks, providing resources, and helped advise the city on how to best prepare for its eventual arrival. The team provides guidance to work groups regarding re-entry into facilities and supports employee mental health and well-being as we adapt to this new normal.
 Our benefit offerings have also been subject to changes, such as withdrawal options for our 457 Deferred Compensation Plan through the CARES Act, COBRA extension of deadlines, and the most recent changes to the flexible spending accounts, which allow participants an extended deadline to incur claims. Therefore, employees are at less risk of losing their contributions as many of them face financial hardships.
 All changes have impacted the workload of our staff, but they have never skipped a beat. They understand the unique needs of city employees, dependents and retirees, and continue providing exceptional service to all. We would be facing different outcomes if it weren't for this incredible team, which makes up the Health and Financial Benefit Office, in addition to the leadership that we receive from our Chief Human Resources Officer.
 I would also like to take a moment to thank our valued partners within the Labor Management Benefit Committee who have collaborated on plan changes, which respect the fiscal responsibility and sustainability required to protect the health fund. We also collaborated with the Portland Police Association in making strategic and fiscally responsible decisions for their plan as well.
 I'd like to thank our long-standing vendor partners for their continued support in providing innovative benefits which meet the needs of our employees and dependents. Lastly, I would like to express our appreciation to Commissioner Fritz and her staff, especially Tim and Claire, for their continued support and flexibility as we honor the desire and interest to forge a path towards equitable fertility benefits.
 Our first ordinance, number 377, authorizes the health plan document for the new benefit plan year beginning July 1 of 2020. While the plan documents represent the legal requirements of the health plan and the health reimbursement account, by approving this ordinance, you are also approving plan design changes recommended by the Labor Management Benefit Committee and for the administrative requirements which BHR and the Benefit Office are responsible to fulfill.
 Changes recommended by the LMBC include additional EAP visits, which I'll talk about in the next ordinance, continued enhancements in no-cost mental health co-pays, limiting out-of-pocket costs only to the deductible for inpatient mental health, pharmacy changes targeting specialty medications, which reduce costs for the participant and for the city, minor dental changes,
 important COVID-related enhancements, and a commitment from the LMBC to continue fertility discussions within the Fertility and Family Planning Subcommittee working toward an equitable offering with a tentative effective date of January 1, 2021.
 Based on the LMBC changes described, the final health premium costs and self-funded rates increased approximately 3.3% citywide for fiscal year 2020-2021. The Health Operating Fund budgets include appropriations in support of health plan costs associated with this ordinance,
 and as in prior years, we draw down health operating fund reserves to lessen cost impacts to bureaus and to employees. This has been an important strategy to balance against high increases. Our second ordinance, 378, seeks an additional $500,000 in funding for Employee Assistance Program services provided by Cascade Center's EAP. There is no change to the contract terms as a result of this ordinance.
 As the Mayor stated, Cascade Centers has been the City's EAP provider and partner since 2011. This is the last year of our five-year contract extension. The City will be required to seek competitive bids through a Request for Proposal process for Fiscal Year 2021-2022. Additional funding is necessary to address increases in participant counts over the length of this contract,
 prior increases in the number of visits for our first responders, the addition of an online mental health platform called Whole Life Directions, and to support the additional five confidential counseling sessions as mentioned earlier. This brings the total number of confidential counseling visits to 13 for our PPA and PFFA groups and 10 for all of our other union and non-represented groups.
 The additional EAP counseling options address gaps in care for current Kaiser participants by allowing for additional provider choice and privacy protection. As required by the Mental Health Parity Act, these steps ensure the continued freedom to independently manage mental health and increases this benefit for all employees, regardless of their health plan choice.
 The requested funds are available within the Health Operating Fund, and Kaiser is offsetting its premium to make the increase for the additional visits cost neutral for its participants. I would ask for your support in authorizing these ordinances, and I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Thank you for that excellent presentation. Well done. And does that complete your overall presentation? Yes.
 Yes, it does. Thank you. All right. Very good. Colleagues, any questions before I ask if there is public testimony? I can't find myself. Where am I? Here I am. There I am. I'm back. Colleagues, no questions at this particular moment? Very good. Carla, is there any public testimony? Yes, Mayor, I believe we have two people signed up. We'll go with Carly Smith-Rose.
 All right, three minutes each. Name for the record, please. Carly, welcome. Hello, thank you. Can you hear me? Yes, loud and clear. You're good to go. Wonderful. Thank you for letting me speak today. Over the last few months, I have been preparing for one of the most life-changing journeys a person can embark on. I'm thankful to be in a place where parenthood is something that is within my reach.
 I knew that with this decision I could be faced with challenges from the very beginning. I'm a single queer woman of color and for me the natural process to become a parent looks very different from what my hetero counterparts experience. While I was researching IVF, IUI and other treatments available, I was immediately met with the reality that these needed procedures were not covered by my insurance plan. And if I wanted them to be, I would need to change my entire health plan.
 So I would no longer be able to get care from my doctor, who I have been seeing for years. I would no longer be able to get care at the facility that I have been going to for years. So my choice is to pay completely out of pocket or endure complete health care upheaval. Ultimately, my decision to utilize IUI was because of affordability, even though a better choice for me would be IVF. This doesn't seem like a fair choice. It feels punitive.
 And the question is, why should I be forced to choose this way? Just because my natural way of starting a family requires a different type of care. I believe that there are no barriers to what is my natural process to become a parent. So I'd like to recognize the important work that the Fertility Benefits Subcommittee is doing to be truly supportive of families like mine.
 and to encourage this council to adopt changes that reduce barriers for people like me and my family. Fertility treatment should be covered under all health care plans that the city provides for its employees. Thank you. Thank you, Carly. We appreciate it. Next is Jennifer Kane. Welcome, Jennifer. Is it Jennifer Kane or is it... Are you sure you have the right last name there, Carla? It's K-A-I-N...
 And it's not Jen Cairo. She's on the attendees list, Mayor. Okay, Jen Cain, are you muted? I am. I'm sorry. I did not sign up for a public testimony. I'm just participating in the call. Oh, okay. Thank you for participating. We appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz, you're muted. Okay.
 Well, yes, I was and I was trying to find it. It's very difficult toggling back between the screen where I have my comments written and the session. So sorry about that. So I just wanted to give some more context about the facility treatments and to thank the team who've been working on it.
 I brought the request for the expanded fertility coverage to the Labour Management Benefits Committee to explore in the current fiscal year. And I highlighted the city's commitment to being an employer of choice, attracting and
 retaining a diverse culturally competent fully engaged workforce providing excellent public services and adding to our package of inclusive benefits which currently include paid sick time paid parental leave including for foster and adoptive parents cognitive behavioral therapy for autism and transgender health care all of which have been a part of getting included over their 12 years that i've been on the council and it makes me smile just to think of the changes and
 the improvements that the team at Human Resources has made over the past 12 years to provide healthcare benefits to our communities.
 valued employees. So to inform the Labour Management Benefits Committee in discussion, Claire Adamsick on my staff utilised the diverse empowered employees of Portland to collect testimony from city staff willing to share their experience and thank you to Carly Smith for being willing to do that in this meeting. These employees highlighted the difficult choices that they had to make
 between what they could afford for out-of-pocket for fertility treatments versus what may have been the best route for them medically, as we just heard from Carly. They described their mental health impacts from the cost burden of support deemed elective, which is an inherent barrier for people whose past de-parenting is only possible with some level of medical or agency support.
 and some also shared that they were unable to access the limited benefits the current plans provide due to age or other factors. There are disproportionate impacts of limited or no fertility coverage on single and LGBTQ plus parents in particular, although fertility care needs are not exclusive to these communities. Fertility is a fundamental part of health care and should be accessible to everyone, regardless of age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, expression or marital status.
 I appreciate the time that the Labour Management Benefit Committee members have dedicated to exploring options to help employees pursue various paths to parenting through assisted reproductive technology adoption or surrogacy. And Claire Adams-Sick on my staff has done amazing work working with you. Particularly thank you to Michelle and to Cathy, as well as to Ashley Grundy and the subcommittee members. This is really important work.
 those of us who are parents know what's up as was mentioned what's a life-changing experience that is and for those who wish to become parents everybody should have access to benefits and it shouldn't matter whether you're on Kaiser or Moda to get that done so thank you for being willing to continue to work on it. Thank you Commissioner. Colleagues any further comments or questions related to this item?
 Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll on item number 377 first. Hardesty. Incredible work to make sure that all employees have equitable benefit packages. We continue to work on it until we get it right. Thank you so much, Kathy. Blessing your staff for all the work you did to bring these reforms in front of us. I vote aye. New Daily.
 Well, I'm very happy to support this item. Carly, it was nice to hear your voice, and I wish you luck in that exciting endeavor. We celebrated the anniversary of marriage equality in Oregon yesterday, and I see this as another step in the right direction for equality and justice. And I'm happy to vote aye. Fritz? Yes.
 Colleagues, it makes me really happy to hear of your support because some of this work will continue after I leave office at the end of the year. And so thank you for being willing to continue to work with the amazing Cathy Bless and Michelle Taylor, who have done such great work with all of the Labour Management Benefits Committee. I attended some of them when I first started and I was just so impressed at the work that the
 the partners are doing to make sure that healthcare is provided. Another of the pieces that I'm really excited about this package is about the waiving the co-pays for mental healthcare. And that's for both the Kaiser and the Moda plans. Not only that, but for the Moda plan, co-pays for inpatient services and treatment for mental healthcare will be paid for. So in addition to the co-pays,
 to what we're providing for the firefighters, the special needs that they have for mental health care as well as physical care. It's really good to see the city taking the lead on mental health care and recognising it's important because we know that when employees are experiencing mental illnesses, that they need to be able to talk to professionals and to get the help that they need. And that...
 Because of the health privacy rules, it's very difficult for supervisors to manage and support employees within the workplace. So again, thank you for your work on that. And I know that that is something that will need additional work as you continue to evolve. Thanks in particular to Claire Adamsick, who has been so helpful in making sure that
 I understood and the others understand the challenges and the needs that everybody has, everybody may have, regardless of your status. Well, first of all, thank you for a great presentation. These
 Changes to the benefits plan extend access for city employees to critical health services, which are as important as ever when we're in the middle of a global pandemic. We know that the effects of the pandemic are causing a strain on mental health as well as obviously physical health. So I'm glad that we're able to provide some additional mental health benefits through our plan partners.
 There's a lot of people here, too many to name individually to thank. So I just want to collectively thank the Bureau of Human Resources staff and the
 all of the members of the Labor Management Benefits Committee for the incredible amount of work they put into amending the City of Portland Employee Benefits Program to improve our offerings for everyone. Commissioner Fritz, I want to personally acknowledge you and your team for the work around utility benefits. That's some strong work, and it's so important to both being able to protect the health and the well-being of our employees.
 employees and as you indicated this moves us towards our our aspirational goals of being an employer of choice at every turn you want to be able to recruit the best people and be able to retain the best people and obviously health benefits is one of the way we're able to do that so thanks everybody for your great leadership I vote aye the ordinance is adopted
 Carla, can you please call the roll on the related but different ordinance 378? Curtis D. Aye. Udailey? Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you everyone. The next item is item number 381 from the regular agenda.
 declare intent to centralize, guide, and coordinate COVID-19 efforts that bolster progress towards the city's long-term recovery goals. Colleagues, the resilience resolution is an important starting block as we continue providing immediate community relief and as we begin to map out longer-term actions to help Portland come out of this COVID crisis a stronger community.
 This resolution is not proposing a new set of city values. Rather, it is affirming and enshrining existing community-driven priorities as the values that will stay primary throughout our COVID-19 response work and our longer-term recovery. This resolution is also not, by itself, an action plan.
 Rather, it is a values framework that will form a key input to the decisions that we're going to make going forward. This resolution is possible because our community partners work to determine the values of climate action, environmental health, civil rights protections, and equity into city adopted resolutions, ordinances, and specific plans.
 This resolution reaffirms the fruit of that hard work and the shared values our community has entrusted and expects us to uphold. This resolution also owes a debt of gratitude to my council colleagues and their staffs, former council members, and current and former city staff. This is truly a collaborative effort.
 Thank you to those who led the way on earlier actions with their vision and to those who helped shape today's action to reaffirm those important values. We have city bureau directors and community leaders with us today to walk us through this resolution. And so with that, we will start with PBM director Mike Myers. Thank you.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Wait, before you jump in, Mike, a little bit of administrative detail here. Colleagues, I'd like to offer up the substitute resolution. Can I get a second? Second. And Commissioner Hardesty, will you also accept as part of the substitute the addition of Exhibit A? I will. Very good. And Legal Counsel Lori, will you be with that? Yes.
 It's fine, Mayor. Very good. So we have a motion and a second. Any further discussion on the substitute? Carla, can you call the roll so we can put the substitute on the table, please? Curtis T. Aye. Uday Lee. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The substitute and Exhibit A are now on the table. Director Myers, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Council, and thank you for the opportunity to speak today. For the record, my name is Mike Myers, Director of Portland Bureau of Emergency Management for the City of Portland. I have been in the emergency service business for over 30 years. I began my career when I was 19 years old as a firefighter in Las Vegas, Nevada. Over 26 years I spent there as a career and ended up as the fire chief. And in time, I would become your fire chief here in Portland. Now I'm here as your emergency manager.
 Over those years, I have fought many fires, I have managed many large disasters, and I have never witnessed anything like this. None of us have. The magnitude, the duration, the complexity. We activated the City of Portland's ECC, the Emergency Coordination Center, in early March to manage the city's response to COVID-19 outbreaks.
 On any given day, you can walk into the ECC and there, a small group, 25 to 50 people, will be working diligently in response to the pandemic. Almost every city bureau is represented there. Employees from all over the city spend endless hours working together, side by side, in our operations center. They're focusing on assuring that people are sheltered, people have food to eat, people have access to appropriate personal protective equipment, and hygiene items.
 People have access to information. Teams of people from across the city have been working hard on unemployment assistance, rent and mortgage relief, and providing financial stimulus wherever we can. We have volunteers from the NETs, neighborhood emergency teams, working in the ECC and in the field. We are working closely with our other public partners, private business owners, and dozens of community-based organizations.
 The ECC is led by Katie Wolfe, who is the operations manager of the ECC and has been your incident commander since the very beginning. She shares that command with a different city bureau director each week, and Katie has done an amazing job. We're also tightly linked with Multnomah County, where the public health department is located. John Apapa, FMU, our planning, policy, and community programs manager, is the deputy incident commander at the county and works closely with their public health team.
 And finally, I'd be remiss if I did not offer my deepest gratitude for the dedication and selfless efforts of our public safety teams, our firefighters, police officers, park rangers, our 911 operators, and certainly our doctors, nurses, food service providers and cleaning service providers, shelter operators, and all the supporting service providers working every day to help our community through this period. I have always said at every emergency I've been to,
 It is always neighbor helping neighbor. And this is true today. Thank you, Portland, for being strong and dedicated to winning this battle. We still have a long way to go. We will get there and we will get there together. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Director Myers. Next up, we have the Office of Equity and Human Rights Director, Dr. Markeisha Smith. Dr. Smith, welcome. Good morning.
 Good morning, everyone. Mayor, commissioners, I'm excited about this recovery resolution and honored that the Office of Equity and Human Rights is strategically positioned in the resolution to provide leadership and guidance in what will be a critical direction for equity across the city, both big and little c's.
 And I'm grateful for our partnership with equity managers, in particular, Irene Marion, as well as other practitioners and folks in the Office of Equity and Human Rights to really bring this to life. And I do have a few slides, very quickly, if I'm able to share the screen, if that's okay with everyone, just to highlight a little bit of where we are. And hopefully everyone can see. Yes?
 So, okay, great. The role of the Office of Equity and Human Rights in this resolution is to work in partnership with our bureaus and city staff to really live into our city's equity goals for our COVID-19 response. We are assuming authority to monitor what that implementation looks like, and we want to make sure that we're coming back to share updates and reports to city council, city staff, and our community members as we move forward in this work.
 We have an equity tool. Excuse me for just a sec. This is a lot of background noise. And I didn't want to ask if that was your kids. It is. So I will, I'm sorry. My mother is with him, but we're, he's playing really hard. So, yeah.
 I thought here we go we'll just do it outside I was going to ask other people to move but then I asked your crew to move
 Sorry about that. Only during a time of COVID would this happen. And the door is closed. I apologize. They are really, really having a good time. It's all good. As I was saying, the goals of our equity toolkit, which have been developed in partnership with our equity managers and our Office of Equity and Human Rights...
 Really, I believe, reiterate the city of Portland values, commitments, what our legal obligations are as they relate to civil rights. And they also identify our populations that have an urgent need that will be most impacted over time. And, you know, when we think about those populations, it's not, I want to always reiterate,
 emphasize that it's not because of the color of someone's skin that COVID is having an impact, but rather the systems that have failed to serve Black, Indigenous, and people of color in our system. And so just want to make that clarification. Yeah.
 Some other goals of the toolkit is to make sure that we're encouraging our emergency coordination center and bureaus to really adopt this toolkit as a part of their processes and to establish those expectations for what equity goals look like.
 specific to our COVID-19 response and really beyond. So this is, we hope, a start to something that will continue our work in equity across the city and not just live in this moment in time, but we want to focus on this moment in time. And also to provide some access, easy access to tools and assistance that can help inform our policies, our priorities, our strategy, and our decision making going forward.
 And for the first time, we really have, I think, a great structure around accountability measures. And so we're asking that we have quarterly reports that include what we're calling an equity scorecard at this point that would come from bureaus, come to the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and that we would be able to bring that to council.
 And that when we sort of get to the end of some of this at some point, that we also have an annual report that we're able to provide to council that really communicates what the collective progress has been as it relates to our citywide equity COVID-19 goals and response.
 And this final slide is just a little bit about some of the needs that were highlighted in the toolkit itself. And you can read more details about that. But as you can see, I don't think anything here is really surprising. These are, you know, the needs that have shown up from Community Voice as they've probably been coming to council. There are things that are showing up in our news media, not just in Portland, but across the country. And so we want to make sure that we're staying attentive to them.
 attentive to this and that this list isn't exhaustive. So there are some things that are not even here that we haven't identified in name, but we wanted to make sure to specifically highlight these and also connect that to why we do need to have a collective response to what happens for equity in the time of COVID. And so I will stop sharing and I can pass the mic.
 Thank you very much. Appreciate that Dr. Smith. Next up is the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's Director Andrea Durbin. How are you today? Good morning, doing well Mayor. Thank you very much. Thanks Andrea. I'm Andrea Durbin, Bureau Director for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We commend the City Council for seizing this moment to clearly articulate values and vision for how we intend to recover as a community from the crisis by centering racial equity and climate justice.
 This is a pivotal moment as we're facing converging crises, the COVID-19 pandemic, the resulting economic crisis, climate change, and systemic racial inequities. It is imperative that we rebuild our community and our economy in a way that improves public health, reduces disparities, especially racial disparities, and addresses the disproportionate impact of the climate crisis. Doing so requires us to be integrated and collaborative in our approach and not siloed or insular.
 Our ambition should not be to return to normal, but to build back better and more just. We must ensure shared prosperity, equitable distribution of resources, and a healthier community that is sustainable, resilient, and safe for all Portlanders. We can do that by committing to several principles. First, recovery must not lead us back to business as usual, which caused harm to many Portlanders.
 The track we were on before the pandemic was a planet in peril, resulting in disparate social, economic, and environmental impacts, inequities, and divergent access to wealth, opportunity, and health. Two, recovery efforts should help us reduce carbon emissions that cause climate change and mitigate the health impacts, not add to the crisis while we improve community resilience.
 Three, recovery must address the racial disparities that have been laid bare by this crisis. Economic relief should be provided directly to the people most impacted by this crisis and who have been historically harmed while also protecting against further displacement. Four, recovery efforts should help create family wage jobs.
 Climate action can accelerate economic recovery, create livable wage jobs, and enhance social equity. Recovery provides an opportunity to make a down payment on a regenerative, low-carbon economy, while also helping to prevent future crises.
 And finally, recovery efforts must be undertaken with community. Our work at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is moving in that direction. Now is the time to co-create with our community partners to align our goals, priorities, and actions, and ensure city policies and investments center communities most impacted by this crisis. BPPS has decades of experience coordinating and facilitating multi-bureau climate action efforts focused on both reducing carbon emissions as well as preparing for the coming impacts of climate change.
 We're well positioned to help bureaus leverage and build off each other's work by facilitating information sharing and network building across the city. For example, BPS can help bureaus leverage the Water Bureau's expertise in climate science and modeling, BES's expertise in climate resilience, PARCC's expertise in energy efficiency, PBEM's expertise in community resilience, PBOT's expertise in behavior change, and PROSPER's expertise in clean tech.
 BPS is a connector, convener, and facilitator, and we will bring those skills to help build a collective effort that delivers real impact and strengthens our community. We're in the process of assembling materials, tools, and resources, similar to those that have been developed by the Office of Equity and Human Rights, to assist bureaus with applying a climate lens to their recovery efforts. And the City of Portland has a unique tool that other cities do not have in this recovery process, the community-driven, voter-adopted Portland Clean Energy Fund, or PCEF.
 PCEF will be a source of investments to support disadvantaged and marginalized communities in the transition to a clean energy economy while creating jobs and building community resiliency. PCEF provides an opportunity for the city to address these converging crises and invest and adjust to clean energy transition while reducing the energy costs for low-income people and communities of color.
 We expect the City Council will distribute between $6 and $8 million by the end of this year through PSAP, and closer to $40 million next year to accelerate Portland's clean energy transition. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability stands ready to support city bureaus and city council in working directly with our community partners to help Portland achieve these important goals and recover better.
 Finally, I'd like to thank all of you, Mayor and City Council, for your national and global leadership in taking such a clear stand in prioritizing and centering Portland's COVID-19 recovery work with our commitment to racial equity and climate change. Your action will have ripple effects across our country. Thank you. Thank you, Director Durbin. Next up is our PBOT Director, Chris Warner. Good morning, Chris.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. For the record, Chris Warner, Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'm honored to be here with my colleagues today to affirm our commitment to working together on COVID relief and recovery efforts.
 In the second week of the activation of the Emergency Coordination Center, I had the opportunity to serve as the Incident Commander. Since then, we've had a number of PBOT staff volunteering with the ECC teams, focused on outreach to community organizations, addressing urgent food and resource needs, managing projects, and leading the planning efforts. This experience has given our teams deep perspective on what matters most to Portland Red Light.
 What we are hearing and feeling in this moment is that the first priority in meeting these critical needs for populate, the first is meeting the critical needs for populations in the frontline in this public health pandemic. Portlanders really want us to facilitate a safe reopening to support the movement of people and goods in our transportation system, especially to critical destinations and local businesses.
 And third, Portlanders want us to work towards a more just and sustainable future, one that assures that we apply an equity-focused approach for policy and resource priorities so that we truly improve the outcomes of generations to come. This really is a critical moment in our city's history and requires bold leadership to be activated in all areas of our work.
 We have the opportunity not just to respond to the COVID-19 crisis, but also to accelerate our ability to take climate action and create a healthier, more just, and sustainable future for our city. For several decades now, sustainability and climate action have been woven into everything we do at Peabody.
 When we improve access to transit, build a sidewalk, add a new street crossing or strike a bike lane, we aren't just making it safer and more convenient for Portlanders to get from place to place. We're also making it easier for them to shrink their carbon footprint and improve the air quality for everyone. Our equity commitments and transportation justice focus are newer, but also becoming part of the fabric of our organization.
 To align and amplify PBOT's commitments to climate justice and equity, our current strategic plan requires us to continually ask two critical questions. First, will our decisions advance racial equity and address structural racism? And second, will our decisions reduce carbon emissions?
 To echo these sentiments shared with our leadership, my director colleagues, and community representatives, this public health pandemic has revealed in stark and many times tragic detail the inequities in our society and also here in Portland.
 All of us have been affected by the COVID-19, but PBOT understands that Black, Indigenous, and people of color, immigrants and refugees, older people, people living with disabilities, and young house populations are at the highest risk of the COVID-19 and feeling the disproportionate and compounded effects of this public health pandemic.
 As Piedmont works with our sister bureaus to take climate action and shift in swift outcomes for frontline populations, we are committed to reducing vehicle miles traveled, using cleaner energy by accelerating our integration of electric and clean fuel vehicles into our system, planning and building complete neighborhoods where Portlanders can easily meet their needs while consuming less.
 And in each of these, we are committed to leading with equity and climate justice and ensuring that frontline communities are informed about our work. Our success in reaching these lofty goals depends on how we work day to day, street by street. That's how we are delivering with the voter-approved gas tax. We are investing where the need is greatest and exceeding our goals for minority contracting. We're so grateful that Portlanders renewed their trust in us by approving the Fixing Our Streets program last night in such overwhelming numbers.
 This will make it possible for people all over the city to go where they need to go and to do it safely. Before COVID-19, you saw us fulfilling these commitments through a number of programs. Infrastructure projects improving the speed and reliability of transit, the Roseland Project. Pedestrian and bicycle safety investments, including lighting infill, road redesign, and neighborhood greenways in East Portland.
 and also innovative programs such as the affordable housing transportation wallet, which reduces the financial barriers to a suite of transportation options for people in public housing and affordable housing. In this COVID reality, we are pivoting this work to be responsive to the needs of our new reality. In the last few weeks, you've heard us announce our Safe Streets Initiative, where we support safe reopening of our city and provide new options for Portland's transportation future. Our teams are preparing business toolkits and
 guidelines for distancing in public space and transit stops, and best practices for moving safely through our transportation system. In the coming weeks, you'll see more PBOT announcements inviting frontline communities to partner with us to address the immediate relief and long-term recovery efforts.
 We at PBOT will initially commit $100,000 to prioritize the engagement of networks supporting transit-dependent communities, essential workers, minority-owned businesses, and organizations providing care and distributing food resources to high-risk populations, especially Black, Indigenous, people of color, immigrant and refugees. PBOT Equity and Inclusion Program and the Transportation Justice Steering Committee will lead and hold us accountable for this work.
 We will center our equity commitment as we collaborate with BPS on the City's overall Climate Justice Framework for COVID response, working not to just decrease the carbon emissions, but to simultaneously increase economic opportunity and improve health outcomes.
 We look forward to working with PBAN, BPS, OEHR, all the other bureaus in the city, and our many amazing community partners to take this challenging work ahead and to create a more just, healthier, and sustainable future. Thanks very much for your time and thank you for your leadership. Thank you, Director Werner, and again, congratulations on last night's absolute landslide. Good work. Next up is Andrea Valderrama, Coalition of Communities of Color. Welcome and good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you for having me. Mayor, Commissioners, I really appreciate the opportunity to testify this morning. Before I get started, I just wanted to say that I have that unstable Outer East Portland Wi-Fi. And so if I get a little delayed, I have a colleague who will help jump in and make sure you all have the remarks ready.
 Andrea Valderrama, CCCC President, For you and written format like mayor said my name is Andrea Valderrama and I currently serve as the advocacy director for the Coalition of communities of color. I am a registered lobbyist with the city of Portland speaking on behalf of the CCCC
 Existing racial disparities, socioeconomic factors, and inequities in health outcomes and in healthcare access means that our response to preventing and mitigating COVID-19 must prioritize communities who need it the most, Black, Indigenous, and other people of color. BIPOC communities have been living in a tapestry of injustices for generations. Therefore, it is not true that the virus does not discriminate.
 We have seen it discriminate against our AAPI communities. We have seen it discriminate against our Black, Indigenous, and Pacific Islander communities. We have seen it discriminate against our Latinx communities and other communities of color. For these reasons, we must always lead with race.
 We must target recovery and resilience efforts on BIPOC community members in the following three ways. First, we need your partnership with Multnomah County to address both the public health and the economic impacts of this virus as you implement this resolution. I appreciate that it centers both of these areas through an environmental and climate lens.
 Two, use the City of Portland Equity Toolkit for COVID-19 when prioritizing additional budget and policy priorities. This toolkit is very well written, thoughtful, really appreciate all of the hard work that went into the development of it. I really do think that it lays a great framework for the work ahead.
 We appreciate the adjusted accountability measures and support the inclusion of those accountability measures into the resolution itself. I think that that's an important part of what you all are doing today, and I appreciate that.
 The third and final one is meaningful community engagement. This does not mean engaging BIPOC-led organizations at the last minute and after mainstream white-led organizations, as has been the case in the past. There must be a true, meaningful partnership with culturally specific CBOs, again, with BIPOC-led communities who are working on this work and who are partnering with you in the work ahead. Okay.
 While we were slightly disappointed to see a resolution about us without us and our input, we do appreciate the substitution that was put into the record today, Mayor, and does incorporate our proposed amendments. So thank you for that.
 Some additional COVID budget and policy areas our communities have raised include rent and mortgage forgiveness, resources for improving substandard housing, access to PPE, subsidies for business owners and undocumented individuals, coordination and tracking of hate crimes, resources for culturally specific CBOs, bridging the digital divide, and the collection and reporting of data that is disaggregated by race and ethnicity.
 We cannot be complicit in going back to normal. Things were never normal for our communities to begin with. If we are intentional about creating a more just and equitable community, we must call out systemic equities and work towards weaving a new, stronger tapestry of systems and institutions that work for all communities. I very much look forward to working with you all on these efforts, and thank you for your leadership and for the opportunity to testify.
 Thank you, Andrea, for your time. I think you might be on mute, Mayor. Oh, can you hear me now? Yeah, good. All right, thank you. Next up, we have Anissa Pemberton from the Portland Clean Energy Fund. Welcome. Hi, everyone. Thank you for welcoming us back again.
 My name is Amisa Pemberton. I use they, them pronouns and I'm the Portland Clean Energy Fund Coalition Coordinator. I want to extend my gratitude to the Office of Equity and Human Rights for putting together such an awesome toolkit for our community to use. I also want to comment that it's lovely to see everyone's personal choices of interior design. To see so much beautiful art on everyone's walls is really interesting.
 I want to comment that I think this is an important opportunity to rebuild the city of Portland as a model of equity and justice through a well-planned economic recovery. Just as our dress transition work, we have a choice between a recovery from COVID-19 that replicates or exasperates existing equities or recovery that centers BIPOC communities, Black, Indigenous, and People of Color communities and eliminates injustice.
 I think it's important that we center racial justice and equity in collaborative efforts between Black, Indigenous, Latinx, and Pacific Islander communities and the city. The PSF Coalition expects that the city will invest significantly in community-based nonprofit infrastructure. The nonprofit infrastructure sector, as you all know, employs 14% of Portland's working class.
 And it's important that we invest particularly in frontline community-based nonprofits. This is an investment in the fundamental health and well-being of our vulnerable communities, our most vulnerable communities. We need significant investment in community development corporations, healthcare providers, social service providers, and we all know that these are intersecting needs, that this is an ecosystem of a nonprofit structure.
 and that it ultimately will be an investment in the economy and the well-being of our most vulnerable. Our invaluable community-based organizations are facing existential threats,
 Not just of climate change now, not just of economic injustice that already existed, but now of a new current health and environmental crisis at unprecedented scale. Latinx people are two times as likely to catch COVID-19, Pacific Islanders are four times as likely, and BIPOC communities as a whole are almost two times as likely. And I believe this is because we make up the essential workforce.
 Finally, we need to invest in the climate goals that uplift workers and build towards a just transition. I'm very encouraged to see this as a focus of the COVID-19 recovery. The Portland Clean Energy Fund, of course, it offers a great pool of resources for green jobs and renewable job projects, but more needs to be done for additional green jobs to actively transition to 100% renewable economy.
 I really appreciate all of your time today. I'm happy to pass it off to my other colleagues. Thank you. Thank you, Anise. Appreciate it very much. Next is Taryn Evans, the Environmental Justice Manager for the Coalition of Communities of Color. Welcome. Thank you. Hello, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Taryn Evans and I serve as Environmental Justice Director at the Coalition of Communities of Color. And I'm here today representing the PSUF Coalition.
 Right now, we are living through unprecedented times in dealing with one of the worst public health crises in generations. Yet this isn't just a public health crisis. The effects of COVID-19 are wide-ranging and have been exacerbated by the economic and environmental state of crisis that we were already in. COVID-19 provides a stark example of the disparities experienced by Black, Indigenous, and People of Color communities.
 Lack of access to healthcare and living wage jobs, increased exposure to air pollutants have had the compounding effect of making our communities more vulnerable during this pandemic. BIPOC communities are at greater risk of developing serious complications from the novel coronavirus. Environmental injustices, among many other factors that contribute to this disparity,
 Communities of color are often concentrated in areas with a lack of green space and tree canopy coverage and in closer proximity to industrial areas and heavy traffic, resulting in poorer air quality, higher rates of asthma and other respiratory illness. COVID-19 is disproportionately affecting communities of color, and if we don't center race in this recovery, then disparities will only continue to widen.
 Culturally specific community-based organizations who have been doing the hard work to eliminate these disparities need support and investment now more than ever if we hope to have a just recovery. The Portland Clean Energy Fund provides an example of the types of programs that we need to get us toward that just recovery. The fund will provide apprenticeships and green job training and is grounded in racial justice. Right now, when we face staggering unemployment numbers, this is essential.
 We're at a pivotal moment right now, and how we respond is critical. These deep systemic inequities have been magnified by this pandemic. We need to take bold action and work toward creating a society more sustainable, resilient, and equitable than the one that we had before this pandemic. And I'd like to end with a quote by Michelle Romero, who is the executive director of Green for All.
 So we shouldn't settle for going back to normal. Not when normal means can kids continue to breathe polluted air and drink unsafe water. Not when people who work hard keeping our economy going cannot achieve the basic dignities of health care or good pay. We shouldn't go back when there is the opportunity of going forward and realizing energy independence, healthier communities, cost savings, and job creation. This is the opportunity to dream bigger and do better. Thank you. Thank you, Taryn. We appreciate it.
 Next up is Jenny Lee from APANO. Good morning, Jenny. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to testify this morning. My name is Jenny Lee and I currently serve as the Advocacy Director for APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon. I'm a registered lobbyist with the city speaking on behalf of APANO. First, thank you to our colleagues who've spoken to many of our collective concerns, issues, priorities, and recommendations.
 So I'll take this opportunity to speak to some of the specific impacts on Asian and Pacific Islander communities and how these need to be incorporated into all of the city's responses. Explicitly articulating community-specific impacts of the pandemic is needed so that we can implement meaningful interventions and solutions that actually result in equitable outcomes.
 We at APANO have been engaging on a range of strategies to respond to COVID-19, including some key partnerships with the city, which we greatly appreciate, and working on direct relief, small business support, community outreach, responding to hate incidents, and developing policy solutions.
 In directly addressing the public health threat, we must begin by addressing the disproportionate impact of coronavirus on Pacific Islanders. This is no surprise, like other disproportionately impacted communities, the underlying health and economic disparities dramatically increase the threat presented by the pandemic, both in terms of contracting the virus as well as the severity of it.
 Speaking to some of the specific experiences of Asian Americans and Asian immigrants, we have seen significant mental health impacts and trauma as a result of increasing bias and xenophobia, incidences of bias and xenophobia.
 Fear of this racial discrimination is actually keeping community members from going out, including to access critical resources such as food banks. We're hearing that community members are actually avoiding traveling at all because of even when they are facing food insecurity because the threat has become so severe.
 This compounds the strain that we are all experiencing as a result of the pandemic, and we are concerned, again, to see the increasing frequency and severity, and we hope that the city will continue to reiterate that message in its responses of ending this discrimination.
 While many of our communities prioritize staying at home early in the pandemic, well before the stay-at-home order, they also face increased health risks. For example, living in multi-generational housing, experiencing job loss that's resulting in households doubling up, and also their employment as essential workers.
 A particular note, thinking ahead to how we will respond to the housing crisis and providing assistance and addressing evictions will be critical and I hope that this is a focus consistently from the city.
 An equitable recovery must effectively serve our small businesses and workers, including those owned by Asian and Pacific Islander communities. We'll need ongoing strategies expressed in this resolution to ensure coordination and support, with an emphasis in the small business arena in terms of addressing the specific earliest and hardest hit businesses as well as workers.
 The city's contribution to the Oregon Worker Relief Fund is an example of an innovative, justice-rooted, and community-driven strategy. We hope to see ongoing support and also express our gratitude for our early opportunity to collaborate with PROSPER.
 In addition to the recommendations shared by my colleagues, we also want to lift up strong tracking of the strategies that we're using and the impacts, being sure that along the way we are collecting community-driven, accurate data and anticipate ongoing community engagement and analysis of the outcomes so we have guidance and are able to evolve and improve our responses as we deal with the immediate threat as well as the recovery.
 This resolution is an important reiteration of how the city must practice the equity principles it has laid out.
 And under the strain of the pandemic, we must absolutely maintain these commitments and not perpetuate or commit the traditional response where our communities are hit first and worst and then are neglected in our strategies to rebuild. Let's use this resolution as a reminder to do better. Thank you for the opportunity to testify and the opportunity to work together for a more equitable Portland through a meaningful partnership.
 Thank you, Jenny. We appreciate it. Thanks for your great testimony. Next up is Oriana Manara from Verde. Welcome.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today. For the record, my name is Oriana Monierra. I use she, her pronouns, and I'm the Climate and Energy Policy Coordinator at VERDE. VERDE builds environmental wealth for communities through organizing, advocacy, and social enterprise. We are testifying in favor of item 381 as it lifts up the converging climate and COVID crises and is intended to center Black, Indigenous, and other communities of color in the trajectory of the city's response.
 We are all realizing how crucial connectivity is and how much we have taken its ease for granted. We can no longer be in community, organize in person, and many people are isolated, even more so if they lack access to the broadband and technological connectivity that enables us all to be present in this space, in this moment. We take this ease for granted. Verde's community has been hit hard by the COVID crisis, not only in connectivity to people and devices, but in connectivity to resources like food,
 personal protective equipment, and money to pay rent and utilities. But these are not new crises, nor are the revelations that communities most impacted by COVID are also the communities most impacted by air pollution. This dual burden proves catastrophic. It is not new that evictions or the disruption of community connectivity through gentrification and displacement are unjust.
 that it is unjust that people are energy burdened and threatened with disconnections of utility service. We have done small things to smooth the sharp relief of these problems exacerbated by a public health and economic crisis, but the question we must ask is will this change be lasting? Will we remake a system that has been historically oppressed Black, Brown, and Indigenous communities? The answer is we must.
 Verde sees much language in Council Item 381 that outlines good intentionality towards equity and acknowledges present climate and historical economic impacts on Black, Indigenous, and other communities of color.
 But we would note that the city often acknowledges these things, and that is not enough. Concerted, committed, and community-led action is the only way to carry out the change that we need. We applaud the naming of the community-based energy goals in the 100% renewables resolution, the Portland Clean Energy Fund, and the Zero Cities Project as examples of what this can look like.
 And we need more of this, especially around the digital divide, which increasingly impacts access to the environmental benefits that will build wealth for communities through PSAP and mitigate the air pollution that harms Black, Brown, and Indigenous communities that they face disproportionately. Verde is committed to this work, and we see collaborative and co-creative models like the one forwarded through the Zero Cities Project as the path toward a just recovery.
 But we disagree with the language that names that there is a tension between maintaining employee positions and benefits and providing direct resources to community organizations and community members who are directly impacted by COVID-19. This is not an either or. The city must invest in and maintain the positions of employees with lived experience who are skilled in working with communities.
 It must expand the resources of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, which needs more staff capacity and resources to administer Title VI and provide interpretation services, which are essential in this moment, and now is lifted up to administer the equity toolkit that has been named and lauded today. It must also enhance the ability of bureaus to capacitate communities to come to the table and let community need drive programs and policies.
 We are all realizing how crucial connectivity is, and that means that both links in the chain must be strong, community to lead and government to facilitate the resources to carry out that vision. Verde sees much language in Council Item 381 that outlines good intentionality towards equity, but we must ask the question of whether we are willing to settle for equity or fight for justice.
 This may only be answered after Council passes this item. You must ask yourself if your vote is symbolic and merely acknowledges the language of the whereases, or if you are dedicating the city to the values therein. If it is the latter, and we urge that, then we ask that you as Council members and the Bureau Directors listening today to commit to and follow through on a community-led process to develop subsequent legislation that establishes action and resource allocation in direct response to community need
 You are strengthening the chain with this resolution, but now we must see if it will hold the weight. Thank you. Verde looks forward to your partnership. Thank you, Arianna. Appreciate your testimony. Next up is Bob Salinger from the Audubon Society. Good morning. Good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, loud and clear. You're good to go.
 Good morning, Mayor Willer and members of City Council. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the Conservation Director for the Audubon Society of Portland. We want to thank you for the opportunity to testify this morning, and we also appreciate the work that went into this resolution, the opportunity to collaborate on it, and the opportunity to collaborate going forward. I want to support...
 and applaud the comments that have already been made by my colleagues today. It is incredibly important that we work together to create a more equitable and just and healthy landscape. We were already in crisis before the COVID-19 crisis hit us. What it has shown us is how far behind we were to begin with.
 And as you've already heard today, business as usual is not good enough. That cannot be our goal. If we achieve business as usual, return to what is normal, then we have failed. And we need to keep that in mind as we think about how we allocate resources. Business as usual would not suffice. We appreciate the call out of nonprofits in this resolution.
 Nonprofits are often on the front lines of providing essential community support, and they've been hit very hard by COVID-19. They often do not have the kinds of reserves or safety nets that are found more generally in the business community. It's an irony that the organizations most committed to building our community and protecting our community often don't have the resources themselves to maintain themselves under these kinds of circumstances.
 We'd urge you to look broadly at what that really means. Some of those benefits are hidden. I'll give you one example from our organization. We've maintained the operations of our wildlife care center throughout this crisis. We did that because there's no other facility in the region that treats wildlife, and there's a humane reason to keep it open, but there's also a public health reason as well. Those 3,000 wild animals that come to us every year, if they don't come to us, they go into people's homes.
 And if they go into people's homes, they're a real risk. We shouldn't forget the fact that COVID-19 most likely began because of inappropriate interactions between wildlife and people. And that's why we kept our facility open even at the peak of the crisis. We also appreciate the specific call out of environmental goals along with equity and climate change, green infrastructure, natural resources, natural systems, landscape resiliency.
 We particularly call your attention to the Portland Watershed Management Plan, which is now 15 years old, but which called for the city to evaluate environmental health in every project it does. We're not there yet, but we need to get there now. COVID-19 has driven home in a visceral way, in a frightening way, the way a healthy landscape or an unhealthy landscape leads increased risk of this kind of disease.
 Let me put it another way. If you live in a place that is tree deficient, you're going to have lower air quality. If you have lower air quality, you're going to have a higher risk of asthma and other respiratory diseases. And if you have a higher risk of asthma and respiratory diseases, you're going to have a higher risk of contracting COVID-19 and dying from it.
 And we know that these issues play out on economic and racial lines, that it is disproportionate how they play out. It's absolutely critical that we adjust the environmental health of our landscape. And too often when we talk about climate change, we focus on the emission end of the spectrum. That's critically important, but so too is building a healthy landscape. Well, I'm really happy that we're having this conversation today.
 I want to point out that we need to move beyond words on a page. We're really good at doing resolutions in this city. But there are things happening right now where we're missing critical opportunities. In fact, some of the worst projects are accelerating while we're in the COVID-19 crisis. We need to make sure that we're putting the brakes on bad projects and rethinking things in a different way, even as we struggle to deal with this. And I'll give you just a couple of examples here.
 We need to keep moving forward on the tree code. Right now, my neighborhood is fighting to preserve, we're an undertree neighborhood. The largest tree in our neighborhood is likely coming down in part because the city gave a cut order on that tree. Our tree code is absolutely insufficient today and we need a much stronger tree code. We need to move forward on the light pollution efforts. We need to move forward on floodplain protections.
 These are projects that are already underway. My fear is that they're going to slow down. This is a time to accelerate, not to hit the brakes. There are big projects that we seriously need to rethink. I think about Levee Ready Columbia and the I-5 Rose Quarter freeway expansion.
 Projects that are a billion dollars in public funding that have accelerated during the COVID-19 crisis, but which absolutely failed to meet our environmental, our climate, and our equity goals. We need to do things differently. We're still being way too timid and way too complacent about business as usual.
 We have an opportunity to really rethink our landscape, rethink how we allocate resources, and to come out of this, as you've already heard, better, healthier, and more just. So thank you for your work on this. We look forward to working with you going forward. Thank you, Bob. Appreciate your testimony and your work on this. Next up is Dr. Pat O'Hearn, Physicians for Social Responsibility. Welcome. Thanks. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Patrick O'Hearn.
 I'm a practicing acute care general surgeon, and I'm the board president of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. Guided by the values and expertise of medical science, our over 2,000 members statewide address the gravest threats to human health and survival, including war, militarism, climate change, and environmental degradation.
 We support the resolution before you today declaring the intent of the City of Portland's approach to COVID response and recover with a focus on climate and equity. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown a light on the inequalities and disparities in health experienced by so many Portland communities. The disproportionate impact that the virus is having on Black, Indigenous, and other people of color in the city
 of Portland and beyond is disturbing. We are right to be taking action to ameliorate those impacts, which include but are not limited to a high infection rate in Latinx, Pacific Islander, Black and Indigenous communities. We support the calls of our colleagues from frontline-led organizations who have already spoken today.
 In my work as a surgeon, initially there was somewhat of a lull at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in my work as elective and non-emergency operations were canceled and people avoided coming to the emergency room. However, pretty quickly we started seeing things pick up as people still suffered from diseases like appendicitis, cancer, and serious infections that aren't COVID-19.
 Likewise, the problems that we face here like racial injustice, poverty, houselessness, wealth inequality, and climate disruption have not gone away. So I was encouraged to read the resolution and see that the city is committed to addressing foundational concerns as part of its response to COVID.
 The pandemic in many ways is showing us what needs to be done to address the many overlapping health crises we face. Both climate change and racism are public health issues, and we know that rising xenophobia and hate against Asian American communities and their businesses was one of the first things that we saw with the current pandemic.
 Disproportionate rates of infection and higher impact on communities breathing high levels of air pollution should come as no surprise. Black, Indigenous, and people of color communities have been speaking up about the ways that environmental racism harms their health for generations. And the structures of capitalism force many into essential work that is vastly undervalued and puts them at a high risk of exposure to COVID.
 These are long-standing disparities that also lead to disparities in the ways that climate impacts human health. We appreciate that this resolution sets a strong tone for the values and goals that should remain central for the City of Portland as it addresses these issues and applies federal stimulus-minded efforts to weather the ongoing storm we currently face in unequal ways. Now is the time to double down on our commitments to equity and sustainability in our collective work towards a just transition.
 both to weather this current crisis and to be more resilient for future challenges. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. Thank you, Dr. O'Hara, and we appreciate your being here with us today and your testimony. Next up is Nick Caleb, Center for Sustainable Economy. Welcome, Nick. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, and thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony today.
 My name is Nicholas Caleb and I'm the staff attorney at the Center for Sustainable Economy and Ecological Economics Think and Do Tank based in Portland. In order to respond to the COVID crisis and the background socioeconomic and racial inequities that it has drawn into even clearer view, we must understand and name broader systemic causes and use public resources and planning to create a more just, life-affirming, and resilient city.
 The COVID crisis has laid bare how fragile capitalism is as a system of provisioning basic goods. The capitalist mode of production is good at generating surpluses for the sake of the wealthy few, but poor at maintaining just and resilient systems of provisioning that keep most people housed, healthy, and whole. COVID infection in humans likely emerged as a consequence of industrial incursion into nature, and transmission rates were exacerbated by a fast-paced global exchange network.
 The anemic and stressed response to the crisis was a result of just-in-time production models applied to critical economic sectors and decades of disinvestment in both government and the care economy, which consists of child care, early childhood education, disability and long-term care, elder care, health care, and other essential labor, whether paid or unpaid, that ensures the health and well-being of our society. Thus far, the COVID relief effort has disproportionately benefited the already rich and politically connected.
 Locally, organizations like the Portland Business Alliance have lobbied for more expansive definitions of essential workers and for companies to be able to opt out of the Portland Clean Energy Fund tax that was enacted overwhelmingly by Portland's voters. PBA would put workers at greater risk and deprive communities of resources during the crisis for the sake of protecting the profits of large corporations already receiving significant federal relief.
 In contrast to this vision, Portland should reject the logic of austerity and corporate protectionism, raise additional revenue from taxes on wealthy and large corporations, and provision all available resources to a just and sustainable future. Within this context, we seek specific actions from the City of Portland for the COVID relief effort and beyond. First, CSE stands with our frontline and nonprofit community partners in advocating for provision of COVID relief funds to support their important work.
 Second, we believe the present crisis must be a wake-up call and used as an opportunity to expand the care economy and access to essential services, like health care, public transportation, and good food, as the foundation of a local Green New Deal. This labor is low-carbon and provides immense value to everyone in society. The public sector must explicitly and directly invest in care activities that the market considers to be valueless.
 Otherwise, community needs will continue to go unmet and vulnerable people will continue to suffer. Third, we need to use this moment to prepare for the ongoing crisis of climate change and the disaster of a Cascadia 9.0 earthquake. These crises should be addressed simultaneously by investing in community-scale renewables, weatherization, and worker skills training.
 We need to take seriously the immense risk posed to the Willamette River and communities from seismic vulnerabilities at the Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub and Portland Harbor Superfund site. With the fossil fuel economy in freefall, we should plan for a managed decline of fossil fuel infrastructure in our city as well. The city should support a just transition, one that protects workers, communities, and the river, and is in line with carbon emissions reductions targets.
 This pandemic has shown that resilience on a scale that we need can only be addressed through clear and concerted efforts to value human life over corporate profits. We have suggested amendments to the resolution in line with these principles and have emailed this language to the city clerk for council consideration. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you, Nick. We appreciate it very much. And last but certainly not least is Nicole Johnson from Thousand Friends of Oregon. Welcome, Nicole. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and City Council. My name is Nicole Johnson, and I am the Community Engagement Manager for 1000 Friends of Oregon, a nonprofit that advocates on behalf of Oregon's land use planning program. We work with Oregonians to enhance quality of life by building livable urban and rural communities, protecting family farms and forests, and conserving natural areas.
 Right now, we have experienced a dramatic shift in the way we work, live, travel, and communicate due to COVID-19. Some people have been able to maintain their lives as normal, but many are dealing with the fallout of the pandemic.
 The resilience resolution comes at a time where the city can recommit and bring to the forefront its goals and aspirations. In this time, we're centering the most vulnerable populations is the most important, in particular, commitments to racial equity and climate resilience.
 Thank you for your continued work serving our city during these uncertain times. We support the City Council moving on objectives and policies that focus on our climate and racial equity goals that have already been vetted by Portlanders and community partners.
 The effects of COVID-19 have exposed inequities in our society, including land use decisions, inadequate and unaffordable housing options, transit access, and disproportionate exposure to climate change. We understand that during emergency response, city plans could be left to the wayside due to what might be deemed as an urgent matter, but the results would not produce the best outcomes for all communities affected. This is why the city must uphold its commitments and policies previously made before COVID-19. Our communities are depending on it.
 In addition, we applaud the city's decision to fund the Anti-Displacement Portland Coalition and recognize that the coalition is critical to the recovery of Portland's BIPOC communities. We know without anti-displacement policies and investments, this pandemic and economic shutdown will disproportionately harm Portland's most vulnerable communities. We hope to see the city continue to resource the coalition in the future.
 We are glad to see the city continue to act in good faith in keeping its commitment to equity and climate resilience, utilizing plans and policies that center anti-displacement strategies and policies, climate action, environmental health, and upcoming zone changes that could result in more affordable and diverse housing options. We look forward to being a community partner in recovery efforts. Thank you.
 Nicole, thank you very much for your testimony. We appreciate it. So, colleagues, that finishes our invited testimony for today. I know each of you will have some comments you'd like to make, but let's see first if there's any public testimony. Carla, do we have people signed up for public testimony on this resolution? Yes, Mayor. We have one person, Ellen Mickle. All right. Welcome, Ellen. Three minutes, please. Name for the record.
 That's a mistake. I am just an attendee today.
 Okay, no worries. Thank you for participating and listening, and we really appreciate it. So I want to thank everybody for their testimony, their leadership, and their strong ongoing commitment to help our family members, our friends, and our neighbors during this state of emergency. Colleagues, at this point before we take the vote, I'd like to open the floor for any thoughts or questions you have. Commissioner Hardesty, you have your hand raised.
 Thank you, Mayor. It was actually on purpose, too. And you're unmuted. It's like the perfect. I want to thank all the invited testimony today. Clearly, a lot of thought has been put into this resolution. This resolution is really about
 what we rebuild coming out of this pandemic. And as many of you have said today, I personally have no interest in rebuilding systems that were inequitable to begin with.
 I also want to say that as every government in Oregon and across the country, as all of us are facing severe budget challenges, it was important for this city council to actually know we will have $75 million less going into next year's budget. How do we prioritize knowing that the needs in our community are just overwhelming at this time?
 Um,
 And what we are hearing all across the board clearly is that there are a lot of people that are desperate, that want the city to step in and save them, their business, their nonprofit, their community. I am proud that this city council really was very thoughtful of thinking about who are the people first hit, worst hit, and hardest to recover. Who are the people that today still don't have access to...
 COVID-19 testing, who today still are
 are concerned about collecting the virus. It's primarily at frontline communities, as people in service industries. And so this resolution is really about the city council actually drawing a line in the sand to say that as we start recovering, and by the way, we have not one penny yet for recovery,
 But as we start recovering in the city of Portland, it is important that we lead with our values. And so I support this resolution. I also understand that a lot of asks that people have, it will be simply impossible for the city to personally do.
 But what I know is that we can be strong advocates at the state and federal level, at the county level as we have been throughout this pandemic. And so what I hope is that all the people that showed up today to testify, that you don't go anywhere because the city cannot do this alone. We need the community. We need our federal partners, our state partners, our
 This pandemic exposed what communities of color have been saying for generations, which is we live in an unequitable community. The resources are not shared equitably and the outcomes are not equitably enjoyed.
 We, communities of color knew this before the pandemic. I think there are a lot more people that understand that is so. And I'm proud of the work that we've done here at the city of Portland, both through Prosper Portland's Economic Recovery Task Force. That's been a really thoughtful way to hear from so many community members about what they're experiencing right now. But I also know that
 there are a lot more folks whose voices have not been included in that process. And we need to continue to find ways to include more voices so that when we are making decisions, those decisions are intentional and they are absolutely through an equity lens. I want to really compliment Dr. Marquesa Smith and her staff for the excellent job that they did
 in creating the equity toolkit, I'm always the biggest whiner about equity tools because normally they're like open to interpretation. And I think her team did an excellent job of having some real outcomes that we can hold ourselves accountable to. And let me just say that, yes, because we are putting more work on the Office of Equity and Human Rights, many of us support equity
 making sure they have the resources necessary to do the hard job that they have moving forward. And so later today, we will be dealing with the city's budget. And that certainly will be a key part of how we both invest now and as we invest moving forward. And so I just want to say that this has been a labor of love. And it's also a labor of anxiety. Right?
 Right. Because none of us know today what the resources we will have as a community will be six months from now. Right. We're doing our best guess right now. And I'm proud that tomorrow we will have a work session to talk about how we start investing those limited resources we receive from the federal government. The hundred and fourteen million dollars CARES package.
 Uh, but again, uh, the reality is that's all we know about at the moment. Uh, nothing else has been promised. So we only can work with what we have in hand. And so thank you all. I look forward to the hard work ahead, but I have to say, I'm actually excited. I'm very excited about what we rebuild together because, uh,
 what we had. We know nobody, we're not going back to that. And I'm really, really excited. And crisis becomes opportunities. And in this crisis, to be able to center frontline communities and BIPOC communities and be really intentional means that we're going to have much better outcomes at the other side. So thank you all. And I look forward to the hard work that we all have ahead of us. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Anybody else before I call the roll? Carla, please call the roll.
 Hurtisty? I said all the fabulous things I want to say. Thank you all. It's great to see you all. I am an enthusiastic yes. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Udailey? Great. Well, this public health and economic crisis has only highlighted the urgency of integrating equity and climate justice in all of our work.
 We also have to prioritize supporting the capacity needed for this work to happen, which is something that we've struggled with.
 This resolution chronicles the deep inequities of our past and it provides direction toward a more equitable future. I want to thank everyone who provided testimony and acknowledge your many valid concerns and recommendations. The good news is that the equity toolkit is a living document and we can prefer, we can provide further input for development. So while we're
 not making further amendments today. It's not a static document. I'm obviously very supportive of this resolution, proud to co-sponsor it. I want to especially thank Irene Marion, who is the Portland Bureau of Transportation's equity manager, who is the person who actually developed the equity toolkit during her time on the ECC team.
 Sam, Tia, and Amanda at the Mayor's Office who have pulled together a resolution that encompasses our City's Pivotal Plans and Community Support Division. Thank you as well. Thank you to Dr. Marquesha Smith, OEHR staff,
 and the equity practitioners who will be providing guidance and accountability for implementation. I finally want to express my support for giving OEHR some teeth. I've never really understood why that wasn't done from the outset.
 and I am looking forward to their guidance moving forward. So you have my full support, please reach out to my team anytime we can be of assistance. I vote aye. Fritz. Crisis systematically and disproportionately impacts marginalized communities and the COVID-19 pandemic highlights that fact as we've heard today. We urgently need aligned collaborative strategies that promote transformation
 transformative policies and equitable outcomes. This resolution reaffirms our citywide racial equity values and grants the Office of Equity and Human Rights authority to work with Bureau partners in a coordinated equity-centered response to the crisis that prioritizes Black, Indigenous, people of color, people with disabilities, and other historically oppressed communities. And we heard from many of those communities today. We didn't hear from anybody from the
 the communities experiencing disability. There is a reason that the Office of Equity and Human Rights was founded with a focus on race and also a second intentionality towards assisting people with disabilities. The Office of Equity and...
 of Human Resources staff are working to ensure accessibility in the actions of the emergency response. And we must recognize that people experiencing disabilities are also disparately affected by COVID and disadvantaged youth in recovery. You just think about healthcare needs, caregiver needs, transportation needs, all of those
 in all of those ways people experiencing disabilities have particular challenges and particular expertise that we can all learn from. I appreciate my colleagues signaling their support to adequately fund the Office of Equity so that it can continue to lead this important work. And it's very important to acknowledge that behind this resolution, real tangible work is already underway at the Bureau level that can help support implementation of the goals outlined in this policy. Eric Pachenko,
 equity manager of the Water Bureau, has developed an equity center analysis and associated checklist to help the Water Bureau and its customers they serve lift out this pandemic. Eric, thank you for your work on the equity toolkit and working with Irene Marion. Additionally, the Water Bureau is working with Astrid Ducroy in my office to develop utility assistance for small businesses with an equity lens to help most vulnerable customers. I thank Cathy Cook and the Customer Service Center
 outstanding work that they've been doing during this crisis in reassuring people that their water is safe to drink and that they will
 be able to defer paying their bills if they need to. It's human nature that in times of crisis, we can get pushed in the direction of doing things the way we've always done them. I'm proud to say that has not been the case with the city's response to the myriad negative effects of COVID-19. When we can affirm that we are all part of the same social and economic
 civic fabric we are stronger as a city when all of portland's communities are whole i'm very grateful to mayor wheeler and his staff for leading this collaborative effort when
 working closely with my team and with each of the council offices as well as our bureau and community partners to create a framework that guides our long-term response efforts thanks specifically to sam diaz tia williams amanda watson nicole grant and mustafa washington in the mayor's office i will have to say that one of the things i like most about well i like many things about the substitute ordinance but i like especially that um it was it is designated as has
 been prepared by Claire Adamsick, Derek Bradley, Andres Oswell, Amanda Watson and Tia Williams. And thanks to Sam Diaz for giving the credit to other staff and also for being the coordinators that work.
 Thank you to Dr. Markeisha Smith and Irene Marion for your leadership in bringing together the Equity Toolkit and as I mentioned, the other equity managers for giving input to it. The toolkit represents an important cooperation between the Office of Equity and Bureau-based equity managers. It's crucial that as a council we support the success of that ongoing partnership. I thank each of my colleagues for being willing to sign on to their own accountability and responsiveness to the Office of Equity.
 That's what it takes to truly move the equity work forward is when each commissioner is holding their directors accountable for reaching the goals and policies that are indicated in the policy and in the toolkit.
 Thank you to the staff at the Office of Equity who supported the development of the toolkit, this resolution and other key response guidance. Kofi Dessou, Danielle Brooks, Tatiana El-Haldi, Jeff Aselby, Nicole Chiron, Jonathan Simeone and CJ Robbins. Thank you to Director Mike Myers, all of the directors there, Mike Myers, Andrea Durbin, Chris Warner for your leadership.
 centering equity and climate action in both immediate and long-term resiliency planning and particularly my directors Mike Stewart and Dr Marquesha Smith as well as the whole team that they work with and my whole team played a role in helping bring together this work and that's Claire Adamsick, Astrid Durgoy, Yesenia Carrillo, Tim Crail and Misan Kwan and I'm
 It's astonishing that all of this has come together so quickly and so well. Thanks to all of our community partners who gave input and the work that we will do together. Bye. Wheeler. Thank you and I want to acknowledge that this resolution, like so much of what we've done since the COVID-19 crisis began, was developed very, very quickly.
 I want to particularly thank my colleagues for working overtime with my office to make this happen. And in particular, I want to acknowledge the collaborative efforts of our various Council staffs, particularly Claire Adamstick, Derek Bradley, Andres Oswald, Jamie Dumihill, Hannah Holloway, and Astrid Dragoi. Thank you very much for your leadership on this. I also want to thank the many Bureau Directors and the staff who reviewed and
 and improve this resolution's language and who will do the important work to keep us on track with these values in mind. And I'd like to thank my staff, Sonia Chomansky, Amanda Watson, Tia Williams, and Sam Diaz for shepherding this work. I'm very happy with the leadership that this council has shown throughout this crisis, and I'm equally proud of the Bureau leadership citywide.
 We have never been more coordinated or less siloed during my tenure and it shows. We moved quickly at the local level and provided immediate relief through our emergency coordination center, the economic recovery task force from our city bureaus, and from critical efforts my council colleagues have led, like immediate housing and utility relief measures.
 These actions provide yet another demonstration of the Council's priorities during this crisis. Through today's resolution, we will ensure that guiding values of climate action, environmental health, civil rights protections, and equity are elevated in our ongoing work. Just a quick note about each.
 A sound respect for the best available science demands that we reaffirm our climate action, clean energy, and environmental protection goals and mandates. If we are able to fulfill these goals, we'll be a more resilient Portland, a city with more jobs, cleaner air and water, and a healthier society, not just for now, but for generations to come.
 To further guide this focus area, an improved climate emergency declaration, reflective of the brilliance of organizations and community members on the front lines, will be coming before City Council next month.
 That declaration will update the city's 2030 and 2050 emissions reduction targets and Center Portland's approach to climate action on the front on frontline communities by creating a shared vision of climate justice and jointly developing actions for the city and community to undertake together across the climate crisis. We've heard loudly and clearly from those on the front lines. Nothing about us without us
 This is a concept I'm committed to institutionalizing in city practices. Reported discrimination cases, COVID-19's disproportionate impacts on certain members of our community over others, and a growing number of working people who can no longer make ends meet, while a few have seen their profits dramatically increase, demands that the city reaffirm its civil rights and equity goals and mandates.
 I'm committed to centering the voices of community partners in accordance with this resolution's direction. We cannot rely on traditional status quo, top-down processes and solutions. We must work together to create and leverage new opportunities, to rebuild trust in government, and to realize its potential and always be mindful of the greater good.
 I look forward to working with my colleagues to breaking down silos, not just within city government, but by also creating partnerships that center community members and organizations who've come together to make this resolution a reality. Together and only together can we create a more just, more secure, and more resilient Portland.
 This resolution is just a starting block as we continue to grapple with this crisis. The work continues. Please join the City Council virtually on Tuesday, May 26th at 9.30 a.m. to listen to my colleagues discuss the City's priorities for our CARES Act funds in a Council work session. With that, I say thank you all. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you.
 And I've lost my check. Here it is right in front of my face. Thank you, everybody. Carla, can you read items 384, 385, 386, and 387 together, please?
 Item 384, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for 146 West Building 100 located at 1146 Avenue.
 385, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for 146 West Building 200, located at 21 Northeast 146th Avenue.
 386 approved application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program. Under the inclusionary housing program for Deakum multifamily located at 330 Northeast Deakum Street.
 387, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for Harboski Annex LLC located at 1245 North Anchor Way.
 All right. Thank you very much. And Dory VanBakkel is here. And Dory, I don't know if we need a lengthy presentation on this. This is somewhat boilerplate per council policy. But if you have some opening remarks, we'd certainly like to hear them.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. Hello, Commissioners. My name is Dori VanBakkel. I'm with the Portland Housing Bureau. And we have four inclusionary housing multiple unit limited tax exemption applications with
 with ordinances for approval before you today. So just with some quick background, starting in February of 2017, any building adding more than 20 new units is required to contribute to the city's affordable housing inventory through the Inclusionary Housing Program. Projects have several options to fulfill the inclusionary housing requirements. It's either including affordable units in the otherwise market rate buildings,
 sending units to another building, or paying into the inclusionary housing fund. The percentage of units depends on affordability level and whether a project is within the central city or gateway plan district or outside of those plan district areas.
 And the multiple unit limited tax exemption or multi-program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing projects choosing to make units affordable rather than paying a fee in lieu. And so each multi-application does come before council for approval. We do have a brief presentation that I'll share just as a means to walk through those projects real quickly.
 Oh, it closed on me. All right, are you all seeing this then? Yes, we can see it. Yes, yes. Perfect. Okay. So moving on then. The four projects as mentioned in the introductions, there's two in outer northeast, one in inner northeast, as well as one in far north Portland. Okay.
 The first one, the 146 West Building 100, is a three-story residential-only building consisting of one-bedroom units, roughly 430 square feet each. This project is actually making all of the units affordable at 60% in median family income.
 and will restrict all of those units under the inclusionary housing program for 99 years and therefore is eligible to have all of those 24 units receive the benefit of the tax exemption over the 10-year period. As far as the benefit to the project specifically, the tax benefit,
 on average over the 99 years is about $28 or the building as a whole is $668 per year over 99 years. But looking at it annually, there's a $6,600 benefit roughly compared to a rent discount of about $4,400. And then as far as on the
 146 West Building 200, it similarly is part of the same project and is also making all of the 22 units in the three-story building affordable. Those are all one-bedroom units, about 460 square feet, and will likewise be making all of them affordable over 99 years.
 and has also per annual tax benefit then of about $572 over 99 years. And there's a difference in the benefit for 10 years of $5,600 compared to about $4,400 of a discounted rent. The Deacon project is a 39-unit four-story building
 consisting of studios and one bedrooms averaging 336 square feet and 409 square feet relative there, and is making most of the units affordable. It will have 34 of them affordable at 60% of median family income and is also voluntarily making more units affordable in order to have the tax exemption on more units.
 Outside of the Central City and Gateway Plan districts, they otherwise would only receive the tax exemption over that 10-year period for the units that are affordable. This also avails them to additional exemptions through the System Development Charge Exemption Program as well as the Affordable Housing Construction Excise Tax.
 And looking at the Deacom specifics, that one has a per year total of $2,815. And over the 10 year, there's a difference of $27,000 for the whole project compared to a rough difference in the average rent of $3,000.
 And the last project is Harbor Sky in North Portland. It's a five-story building with 113 units. There's a unit mix of studios, one bedroom and two bedroom units.
 And this will be providing the minimum affordability required by the program under the option at 80% immediate family income and will result in two studio, 11 one-bedroom and four two-bedroom units restricted over that 99-year period. On a per unit basis for the affordable units then,
 That results in roughly a per year amount of about $24,000, as well as then a $4,500 rent discount on average. So that does conclude the quick presentation. Are there any questions about these particular projects? Colleagues, any questions? No.
 I'm not seeing any hands raised. It looks like you did a thorough job there, Dory. As always, we appreciate it. Carla, is there any public testimony on any of these four items? No one registered, Mayor. Very good. Could you please call the roll on 384? Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Dory, thank you for being at the beginning of our agenda and close to the end and for your succinct presentation. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 385, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 386, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Last but not least, 387, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Fritz.
 Udailey? Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please read item number 388. Amend fee schedule for tree permits.
 Portland has been known as a green and livable city, and Portlanders are justifiably proud of our urban tree canopy, which includes trees on both public and private land. Trees provide countless benefits to people, as we heard in earlier testimony today. Climate and wildlife, they produce oxygen, clean the air and water, provide shade and reduce the urban heat island effect.
 reduce soil erosion and runoff, provide habitat, increase property values and more. Portland Park and Recreation's Urban Forestry Division is proud to support our urban tree canopy, but they rely on fees in order to provide essential services to Portlanders.
 The Urban Forestry Department reviews its annually. This year's proposed update is a moderate fee increase for development permits, meaning permits needed when a building or a new home or significant remodel of a home takes place. The proposed fee schedule does not change any fees for non-development situations, like a permit to remove or replant a tree on your property that's become hazardous.
 We have Brian Landau from, he is the urban forestry analyst. He's on the line to answer any questions that anybody may have. Colleagues, any questions? Brian, it's good to see you. Thank you for being present today. Carla, is there any public testimony on this item? No one registered. Please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry, Mayor. This is a non-emergency. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Hello, Carla, not yours. What a role here. Let me do this. That was a good practice vote, people. That was really good. Brian, since you're here, I just want to thank you for the hard work you put into this. I know it's not easy, and we all appreciate it.
 Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Keep going. I want to also add my appreciation and I think it's a credit to the good work that Brian did that no one signed up to testify. Normally when we're talking about trees, we have a lot of public testimony. And so that just says to me that you did excellent work in preparing to bring this to us. So I thank you, Brian.
 Thanks, Brian. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Last but not least, item number 389, a second reading.
 Authorize $548,094 total in grant funds for the 2020 Cannabis Social Equity Grant Program in the Office of Community and Civic Life. Colleagues, this is a second reading. We've already heard a presentation on this item and an opportunity for public commentary. Is there any other business on this particular item? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty.
 So I want to take a moment to appreciate the hard work of the Oversight Committee that put these grant applications together. And I want to appreciate Commissioner Udeli and actually leading this effort over the last three years to make sure that we had, we were using cannabis tax dollars to actually invest and making community members whole.
 And we will continue to talk about cannabis tax and whether or not we are investing them in ways that give us the outcomes that we're looking for. But I am proud to vote yes today to support the work of this committee. I vote aye. Thank you, Daly.
 Well, I want to thank the team at Civic Life, Michael, Christina, and in particular, Kimye, who's shown impressive leadership during the COVID-19 crisis in facilitating this grant selection and notification process.
 in getting these funds to our community partners as quickly as possible. At the beginning of this crisis, I asked Civic Life to fast track this effort to ensure that Set Aside dollars would get out to struggling communities and organizations as quickly as possible. And I'm really pleased that we're able to accomplish this together.
 Even in a crisis, we have a responsibility to invest in communities that have been the most harmed by our historic and racist public policies, such as cannabis prohibition.
 There are four buckets of spending for cannabis dollars, public safety, recovery and treatment, economic development, and restorative justice. In my mind, restorative justice is the most important bucket to fund with these dollars. We did harm to black and brown communities with our drug cannabis prohibition laws.
 And as we talked about earlier, acknowledging that harm is not enough. We have to deliver a remedy. We have to make tangible differences in people's lives who have been disproportionately and adversely affected by these laws. Portland has become a national leader for cannabis social equity and restorative justice programs.
 Despite the fact that funding has been inadequate for the last three years. So I'm going to continue to fight fight for funding and and to ensure that we fulfill the ballot measure goals of restorative justice for
 by PEC communities. So today I'm excited to approve these projects, which will provide legal services, educational and organizing opportunities and wraparound supports for Portlanders disproportionately impacted by these past policies. I want to thank the grant committee for their work as well. And I vote aye. Thanks.
 Well, thank you and congratulations to all of the community organizations who are going to be the grant recipients. You're doing very important work in the community. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly and your staff, Jamie Duhamel, Hannah Holloway, and former staff Winter Johannes for your continued advocacy to retain a portion of cannabis tax revenues for direct community support. Kimmy,
 Yay, you cut you Oka in the office of community and civic life has done amazing work on this My representative on the grant committee Jessica Rojas who works who works at the Northeast Coalition for neighborhoods But participated on this committee in her personal volunteer time Thank you to you Jessica and to all the other community members who gave their time and energy to this process and thanks to Claire Adam sick and Tim Crail who? are
 help set up the program initially with the guidance of the cannabis policy oversight team and who have remained really invested in it. It's certainly something that I will continue to watch and feel happy about that we have community benefits, we have a range of programs in this in the three different areas that were identified in the ballot measure that passed so handily and I wish you well with making good choices on how to spend it in the years to come.
 Wheeler. You know, everything my colleagues just said, this is fantastic. These resources are going to get out into the community and we're going to make this significant impact. So thanks to everybody who worked on this. This is a very easy thing for me to vote on. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. And we are adjourned for at least the next hour. We'll see you all on the other side.
 This is the Wednesday, May 20th, 2020 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, good afternoon, please call the roll. Good afternoon, Mayor Hardesty. I hear. Eudaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler.
 And I am also here, we are convening as the City of Portland Budget Committee. And before we get into this, could we please get the statement of order and decorum from legal counsel? Yes, this is Matt Farley from the City Attorney's Office. To participate in City Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about your subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the final reading of the ordinance. The published council agenda at portlandoregon.gov backslash auditor contains information about how and when you may sign up for testimony while the city council is holding electronic meetings. Your testimony will address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose that you are a lobbyist
 If you are representing an organization, please sign the inquiry. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When your time is up, the presiding officer will ask you to conclude. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting, refusing to conclude your testimony when your time is up, or interrupting others' testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 and the person placed on hold or rejected from the remainder of the electronic meeting. Please be aware that all council meetings are recorded. Thank you. Under Portland City Code and State Law, the City Council is holding this meeting electronically. All members of the council are attending remotely by phone and the city has made several avenues available for the public to listen to the audio broadcast of this meeting.
 The public can also provide written testimony to council by emailing the council clerk. The council is taking these steps as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to limit in-person contact and promote physical distancing.
 The pandemic is an emergency that threatens the public health, safety and welfare, which requires us to meet remotely by electronic communications. Thank you all for your continued patience, flexibility and understanding as we manage through this difficult situation to do the city's business.
 Colleagues, today we will take a series of steps and vote as part of the approval of the fiscal year 2021 budget as prescribed by Oregon state law. As the City of Portland's Budget Committee,
 We will hold a hearing on the uses of state revenue sharing, consider changes to the approved budget as filed, and approve the tax levies for fiscal year 2021. Carla, can you please read time, certain item number 390.
 Yes. Approval of the fiscal year 2020-21 budget for the City of Portland. All right. As I said, I'm convening this meeting of the City of Portland Budget Committee. We'll start with Jessica Kennard, Director of the Portland Budget Office. Director Kennard, hello. Hi. Thank you, Mayor. So the overview of today's hearing, so as the Mayor mentioned, Council is convened in your capacity of the Budget Committee
 There are several steps that council will take today. These steps are required by local budget law and include uses of state revenue sharing, consider changes to the approved budget as filed, and approve tax levies for 2021.
 So, as a reminder of what steps have been taken thus far in the budget process, bureaus submitted their requested budgets at the end of January 2020. The City Budget Office then analyzed their budgets and their requests. City Council then held some work sessions on bureau budgets. However, the COVID-19 public health crisis resulted in the cancellation of several sessions. Materials from all bureaus have been provided to the public on the City Budget Office website.
 Of course, our financial picture changed dramatically, and we have had several ensuing conversations around that. The mayor released his proposed budget decisions on May 7th. The proposed budget document was delivered to council also on May 7th. The document was not printed this year and only provided online, given the constraints of the public health crisis.
 Council then convened as the Budget Committee and conducted a hearing on the proposed budget on the morning of May 12th, during which the Mayor delivered his budget message, and in the evening the Budget Committee was reconvened to hear public testimony on the proposed budget. These steps were necessary before entering the approved budget phase. Today the Council is going to consider changes to the proposed budget. These changes are going to take two different forms.
 The changes that are included in the approved budget as filed are detailed in the change memo attachment B. These were walked through with you all last week and there are also going to be changes that can be considered by floor amendment. Individual amendments will be put on the table, seconded and then voted upon. Again, the process for today is first the mayor is going to open a hearing for state revenue sharing. After reading from a script, hearing testimony and closing the hearing, we will move to discussing the budget,
 We will first need agreement from the Budget Committee to consider the changes that are in that change memo, attachment B. That will need to be motioned and seconded. Next, we are going to open the floor for amendments. Each amendment needs to be motioned and seconded and finally then voted upon. Last, we need an action to put all the change memo adjustments and new amendments on the table for public testimony.
 This will need to be motioned, seconded, and voted upon. This will feel like a vote to approve the budget, but this is just a vote to put all the amendments on the table. This allows the public to provide testimony on all amendments, both the amendments included in the change memo and then any new amendments. Further amendments can be made following public . There will then be a vote to approve the budget. Finally, we will vote to approve the tax levies.
 Following this hearing, the approved budget will be forwarded along to the Tax Supervising and Conservation Commission, which has 20 days to review the budget. The TSCC will then conduct a hearing on the city's approved budget on Tuesday, June 9th at 9.30 in the morning. This hearing will be scheduled under the current virtual meeting format used for public meetings and will live stream on the city's YouTube channel. The final budget adoption is set for Wednesday, June 10th at 2 p.m.
 Public testimony can be received during today's approved budget hearing, the June 9th TSCC hearing, and the June 10th budget adoption hearing. We'll now go back to the script, and I'll turn it back over to you, Mayor, for the state revenue sharing item. Very good. I'm now opening a hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. This hearing is being held by the City Council of Portland, Oregon, in compliance with the provisions of the state revenue sharing regulations, ORS.
 221.770 is to allow citizens to comment on the possible use of these funds in conjunction with the annual budget process. As proposed for council adoption, the fiscal year 2021 budget anticipates receipts totaling $25,024,268 from state revenue sharing.
 As has been the case in prior years, it's proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support fire prevention and police patrol services. Is there anyone here today that wishes to be heard on this subject? Carla, anybody signed up? We had eight people register for item 390.
 Is there anybody on the line who would like to testify on the state revenue sharing component of the ordinance?
 Mayor, will you ask them to raise their hands? Yeah, okay. So if you could, folks, if you go to the raise hand function, for some of you, it may be easier to take your cursor all the way to the bottom of the screen, click on participants, find yourself and then raise your hand.
 That'll help Keelan, our clerk this afternoon, understand whether you'd like to testify on a particular matter. So if there's anybody who'd like to testify on this narrow portion of the budget, which is focused on state revenue sharing, please raise your hand and Keelan will call on you. And Keelan, just quickly glancing here, I don't see anybody raising their hand, do you? No, I don't.
 Okay, very good. Then I'm now closing this hearing to discuss possible uses of state revenue sharing. I will now entertain a motion to consider the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the memo titled Approval of the Budget for the City of Portland. Is there a second? Second. Commissioner Fritz seconds the motion.
 And now we'll hear from Director Kennard on the various approved budget changes as filed.
 That's right, Mayor. So at this point, we'll discuss changes to the proposed budget. As a reminder, the approved budget before you totals $5.6 billion. The general fund discretionary budget is $568.3 million. There are 6,791.37 total FTE in all funding sources.
 This budget includes a $75 million reduction of general fund discretionary resources due to the projected financial impacts of the COVID-19 public health crisis on city resources. Notable changes between the proposed and approved budget as detailed in attachment B and discussed at the work session on May 12th. A high level overview of those changes include various technical adjustments.
 which in addition to the changes to the general fund, there is an increase to general fund contingency by $112,292 due to a change in funding of the livability coordinator in the Office of Management and Finance from 100% discretionary funded to the general fund overhead model.
 There were technical adjustments in council offices' budgets to equalize resources for support of citywide cost saving measures. There is a reduction of about $2.1 million in general fund beginning fund balance as resources are remaining in the 2019-20 budget and not moving forward to 2021.
 And then finally, there's a technical adjustment within the Office of Management and Finance and Office of Community and Civic Life to properly align the citywide reductions with associated programs. There were a number of items that we walked through. The attachment B is a long document that we walked through in detail at the hearing. I am happy to discuss any of the items that are in that memo if council has a desire to do so.
 Is there anybody who would like to talk through any of the items that we walked through last week in that memo? Colleagues, I'm not seeing anybody jumping at that opportunity. Thank you, Director. Okay. Then I'll turn it back over to you, Mayor, to lead the conversation around amendments. Okay. And so just to be clear where we are, we're looking at the amendments on the sheet titled Approved Budget Amendments for Consideration.
 Correct. Okay, good. So I will start with my amendments and then we'll go into others. First of all, oh, Director Kinnard, did you want to read through these or did you want me to do it?
 um either way mayor i think it makes sense for you to lead there are a number there i think are 22 amendments correct um and uh they are they are grouped by commissioner so each commissioner can choose to read their their items i think that might work best okay good then i'll i'll jump in since i'm at the top of the memo and then i'll turn it over to commissioner fritz next uh my first
 budget amendment for consideration is number one, we'll call it Mayor Wheeler one. It's a motion to allocate $231,000 in one time general fund resource in special appropriations as approved for carry over in the spring supplemental budget. This would allocate. We have a motion and a second motion.
 Amendment number two is a motion to allocate 146,000 one-time resources in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability General Fund that were approved as carryover in the spring supplemental budget. Second. We have a second. I think that was Commissioner Hardesty this time. Is that correct, Commissioner? That's correct, yes. Amendment three is a motion to allocate $83,000 in one-time resources.
 in the Portland Parks and Recreation General Fund that were approved for carryover in the spring supplemental budget? Second. Second from Commissioner Hardesty. Number four is a motion to allocate $300,000 in one-time general fund resources in the city attorney's office in support of an approved carryover from the spring supplemental budget
 Second. Second from Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Number five, motion to allocate resources for the council ratified labor contract with the Portland Police Commanding Officers Association. Second. Second from Commissioner Hardesty. Amendment six, motion to amend attachment D and add a budget note regarding the Portland Police specialty units as follows. And if you wouldn't mind, I'd like to read this into the record.
 Specialty units are common elements of public safety systems nationwide. In recent years, best practices approaches to this work have evolved and communities around the country are considering how to best use specialty units.
 The Portland Police Bureau employs a wide variety of these units, the Gun Violence Reduction Team, the School Resource Officers Program, the Domestic Violence Unit, the Air Support Unit, the Behavioral Health Unit, the K-9 Unit, the Cold Case Unit, the Criminal Intelligence Unit, the Human Trafficking Unit, the Narcotics and Organized Crime Unit.
 the Traffic Division, the Youth Services Division, and the Neighborhood Response Teams. Through its public safety work group, the City of Portland is asking fundamental questions about how best to structure a 21st century public safety approach that meets the needs of all Portlanders. The COVID-19 crisis has reaffirmed the need and the urgency of this important work. The use of specialty units must be part of this conversation.
 Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Hardesty will work together with city leadership and with other interested parties to consider the ongoing use of specialty units in Portland and will bring recommendations to the council no later than February 1st, 2021. These recommendations will be considered as part of the budget development process for the fiscal year 2021-2022. Do I have a second?
 Second. Thank you. Number seven, motion to amend attachment, that was Commissioner Hardesty, sorry. Motion to amend attachment D to withdraw the budget note entitled Civic Life slash Police Space Moves Plan. Second.
 Amendment eight, a motion to transfer $118,911 in ongoing resources from the Portland Parks and Recreation Tree Mitigation Trust Fund to the Parks General Fund operating budget for a botanic specialist number two. Second.
 Colleagues, before I move on, there was one comment I wanted to make on number seven that I inadvertently skipped over. We have a motion on eight from Commissioner Hardesty. Back to seven, which is the civic life policy space
 Oh, nevermind. Moving on. Number nine, a motion to allocate $72,000 in general fund resource to Prosper Portland for the Portland Film Office. Second. We have a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Fritz, the next amendments are yours.
 Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate the amendments you put in, particularly the film office. That's really good to hear. I move to allocate $123,985 in general fund resources to the Office of Equity and Human Rights for implementation of the resolution aligning COVID-19 response with the city's climate and equity goals. Second. Second from Commissioner Hurst. Thank you.
 Thank you. I move to allocate $29,540 in general fund resources to the Office of Equity and Human Rights for critical administrative capacity and support in ongoing dollars. Second. Second from Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Udaly, you're next. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I move to allocate $547,000 in recreational cannabis tax fund resources to the Office of Community and Civic Life as follows. Allocate $547,000 in ongoing cannabis tax fund resources to fund social equity community grants through the Office of Community and Civic Life.
 The source of this funding will be a reduction of $547,000 in cannabis tax fund resources budgeted for community grants in Prosper, Portland. While the previously allocated $547,000 in Prosper, Portland's budget was allocated on a one-time basis, sufficient ongoing cannabis funds have been forecasted to support this allocation on an ongoing basis. Amend attachments B, C, and E needed to reflect this change. Second. Second.
 Thank you. Second from Commissioner Hardison. I move to allocate one-time general fund resources to special appropriations for universal defense as follows. Allocate $250,000 in one-time general fund discretionary resources in special appropriations to support universal defense.
 The funding source for this action is a one-time reduction of $50,000 in general fund contingency and a reduction of $200,000 in one-time general fund discretionary resources in the office of community and civic life, which were previously allocated to civic life's budget for this purpose. Amend attachments B, C and E as needed to reflect this change. Second.
 Thank you. I move to allocate $147,000 in ongoing general fund resources to fund the Regional Arts and Culture Council special appropriation.
 allocate $147,000 in ongoing general fund resources to ensure that the reduction taken by the Regional Arts and Culture Council is equal to the 5.6 reduction taken by other bureaus as part of the mayor's proposed budget. The funding source for this action is a rejection and ongoing general fund contingency. Update attachments B, C, and E as needed to reflect this change. Second. Commissioner Hardesty seconds. Commissioner Hardesty, your amendments, please.
 We're on to me. My first one, motion to allocate resources for the council ratified labor contract with the Portland Fire Association.
 Decrease ongoing inter-fund cash transfer from the general fund to the citywide obligations reserve fund, and increase ongoing bureau expenses and Portland Fire and Rescue general fund by $2,261,713 to fund the increased cost of the PFFA labor contract as ratified by the council on May 14th, 2020.
 The ratified contract also includes one-time savings to align with reductions included in the current budget. The funding source of this action is a reduction of general fund policy set aside by $2,261,713. Amend attachments B, C, and E as needed to reflect this change. Second. Commissioner Udaly seconds it.
 Number two, motion to allocate 50,000 and ongoing general fund resources to support a council emergency security fund. With a rise of white nationalism, both nationally and locally, some Portland City Council members have faced increased threats to their health, lives and safety for reasons pertaining only to their race, ethnicity and or gender.
 Because council office budgets are generally modest and because the need for potential extra security is unpredictable, the need for a pool of resources for council members who face these threats should be established. This action will reduce on an ongoing basis by $50,000 in unrestricted general fund contingency,
 and appropriate these resources in the Office of Management and Finance, a chief administrator's office.
 This will represent an available emergency funding source to be drawn upon by OMF, who coordinates the provision of security services for council members when increased security is warranted due to credible threats of health, life, or safety. Amend attachments B, C, and E needed to reflect this change. Second. We have a second from Commissioner Udaly.
 Number three, motion allocate $50,000 in ongoing general fund resources to support accessibility to city communications.
 Accessibility to city communications is vital for civic engagement, community empowerment, and safety. Accessibility should be a core tenet of all city communications, but not all bureaus have the same access to resources needed to ensure their communication can reach everyone.
 In order to accomplish this, this motion reduces unrestricted general fund contingency by $50,000 and increases the policy set-aside account by the same amount to support a citywide accessibility pool of funding for bureaus who do not have adequate resources to ensure the equitable distribution of communications.
 Bills would request this resource via a supplemental budget process request during the fall and spring supplemental budget process. Amend attachments B, C, and E needed to reflect this change. Second. Thank you. Second, Commissioner Gailey.
 Next motion to allocate $633,000 and $633,244 in support of the Portland Street Response pilot program.
 Reduce general fund one-time contingency policy set-aside account by a half million dollars and increase general fund one-time discretionary by the same amount within the Portland Fire and Rescue operating budget to support the Portland Street Response Project.
 Additionally, allocate $133,244 and one time general fund discretionary resources as approved for carryover from the Bureau of Emergency Communication and the spring supplemental budget to Portland Fire and Rescue operating budget to support the Portland Street Response pilot project. And then attachments B, C and E needed to reflect this change.
 Second. Next, motion to reduce one-time general fund resources approved in fiscal year 2019-2020 spring supplemental budget in the Office of Management and Finance Procurement Services for a procurement disparity study.
 Reduced the $200,000 of one-time general fund discretionary resources in OMF procurement services for their disparity study carryover from fiscal year 2019-20 spring bump. Offset with an increase to general fund contingency for PPB to potentially request their
 the funding remaining in their lease space at Gateway Campus for at least another year to fund this change. And Mayor, I would just take out everything after, my apologies, I would just say that it would just go to general fund contingency, period. Second. Because of your move with the Gateway Amendment, I will just remove the rest of that line.
 Make sense? No, for clarification then, so. So it's an offset will be an increase to general fund contingency period. Period, and then the remainder. And then yes, amend attachments B, C, and E needed to reflect this change. Okay, and Commissioner Udalli seconds that with those changes, Commissioner Udalli. Second. Good. Motion to amend attachment D to add the following budget notes.
 Identify a medically sound alternative to sobering services. In the spring of 2020, Central City Concern closed their sobering station, recognizing it was operating under an outdated model. However, a need for a similar updated service still exists.
 This budget note directs the public safety work group to lead a process to determine a medically sound alternative for services and to bring forward a plan at the fiscal 2021 fall bump. Is there a second? Second. Thank you.
 Motion to reduce general fund ongoing discretionary resources in the Portland Police Bureau that are currently allocated for sobering services and realigning the resources to support a new sobering program to be requested in the fall supplemental process.
 Reduce 1.912.036 of ongoing general fund discretionary resources in the Portland Police Bureau's external material services budget per the contracted amount to support the chair's van and sobering services formerly provided by Central City Concerns.
 Increase ongoing general fund contingency and a policy set aside account for the funding of a future program to be determined by the public safety work group. Amend attachments B, C, and E needed to reflect this change. Second. Thank you. Commissioner, do you have any seconds? And this is the last one, colleagues. Yes.
 Motion to amend attachment D, specifically the budget note titled Public Safety Governance and Integrated Budgets. This motion will replace the current budget note, which identifies a fall timeline for implementation with an October 1st, 2020 start date as follows.
 Council directs the Chief Administrative Officer and the Public Safety Workgroup to identify changes that will improve public safety, increase equity, and address systemic challenges at a citywide level.
 Specifically, the CAO shall work with the Public Safety Workgroup Executive Committee to develop the following by October 1st, 2020. One, models for housing shared administrative services for the public safety bureaus in the Office of CAO.
 These models should clearly identify which services should be centralized and included in an analysis of the impacts each proposed change would have on barrel operations. Number two.
 a strategy for integrating Public Safety Bureau's budgets for fiscal year 21-22 and time for the fall budget monitoring process and for fiscal year 21-22 budget development.
 The budget proposal should be aligned with a public safety strategy plan, I'm sorry, strategic plan, and contribute to any required savings requested as part of the fiscal year 2021-22 budget guide. Council also requires guidance regarding long-term governance and accountability for public safety as a city-wide system.
 Can I have a second? Second. Second, sorry. That's okay. It was a real long one. I know, I know, I know. And that concludes my amendments. Very good. Any other amendments for consideration?
 Jessica, it's my understanding now at the council's discretion, we can go through and discuss any of these individually that we would like. And it's my understanding that at the end of that discussion, we then would call the roll. We actually need to move and second each of these individually again and then vote on them prior to public testimony. Do I have that right so I don't go to jail? No.
 Yeah, so actually first I failed to first we actually do need a motion and a second to also put on as we're discussing changes that all the changes that are in the change
 So that's what we need. First, we need to have all of the changes together on the table, and then we're going to go into discussion for the amendments, and you are going to vote on each of those amendments. And what you're doing there is you're essentially, we're refining all of the changes. And then there's gonna be a motion, a second, and a vote on all of the changes together.
 Okay, so let me make sure I got this right. So a motion and a second on the change memo, which we can take care of relatively quickly, then a discussion on any of, I mean, all of the amendments are now on the table and we can choose to either discuss or not discuss those. I prefer we actually only discuss the ones where there's questions or disagreement or discussion.
 We would then vote on those individually. They're already moved and seconded. And then at the completion of that, we would move the entire package of those that had been motioned and seconded, or excuse me, motioned, seconded and voted on. We would then move and second the entire package and vote on the entire package. Is that correct?
 That is correct. And that all precedes public testimony and that precedes the final approval of the budget. Okay. And so for those who are waiting for public testimony, this will feel unnatural because this is not typically how the city council orders things, but we are doing this to be compliant with state statute. And we are not in fact complying
 currently convened as the Portland City Council. We are convened as the budget committee. So we are following state statute in terms of the order of things. So if you're confused by this, number one, that's why, and number two, welcome to the club. Commissioner Udalli has her hand up and Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I am confused as to why we wouldn't be listening to public testimony before voting on these amendments because
 that would mean that we are going to take our votes up or down and the public testimony actually doesn't matter. So...
 Can you explain that to me? Yes. Yes. So what you're doing right now, Commissioner, is you're voting to approve amendments that will make changes to the approved budget. You are not approving, you're not issuing your final approval. After you hear public testimony, there is then an opportunity for further discussion and further changes. Oh, thank you. Okay. I missed that part. Thank you.
 This is why they have a parliamentarian down in Salem. Right, right. Commissioner Fritz has her hand up. So that Commissioner Udaiti's question was mine as well. And it partially opens it. So, um,
 If the amendment doesn't pass to get on the table, how do people testify on it? And then how do we, in response to testimony, change our vote? Do we vote through all the amendments again? That is a good question, Commissioner.
 why don't we turn that over to matt since he has he has his hand raised so maybe he's gonna give us some further uh insight matt matt you're muted okay can you hear me now yes we can loud and clear okay the the process as i understand it is you have done perfectly everything perfectly so far uh all the the call for amendments they've all been uh
 moved and seconded, that's perfect. Next would be, as I understand it, the public testimony. In other words, the mayor would call for public testimony on any floor amendments, changes to the memo, and the budget as a whole. If there's any public testimony on those things, we would have that. Next, there would be a series of votes. The first vote would be on individual amendments.
 So after the public testimony, the individual amendments are voted on as amendments to the original memo. Next, there would be a vote to approve the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the memo as amended.
 So the mayor would call for the vote to approve the adjustments and attachments B, C, and D of the memo as amended by the individual floor amendments. This is the vote on the package of all amendments to the budget. And finally, there will be a vote to approve the budget as amended. The mayor calls to entertain a motion second and vote to approve the budget as amended. It's very, it seems duplicative
 but that is the process. Okay, so let me make sure I memorized all of this. Commissioner Hardesty just fell out of her chair listening to this. Okay, so. I'm sorry. First of all, no, I'm glad we clarified this. So first of all, we are going to take public testimony. After that, we are going to vote on the individual amendments that have been moved and seconded by the council
 then we will vote to approve changes to the budget, including any adjustments to attachments E, C and D. Is that correct? Or E, B, C and E or B, C and D?
 I believe it's B, C, and D, as in dog. And D, okay. And you'll correct us later if it turns out that's not the case. And then we will approve the budget as amended. You're voting on the package of all amendments. Correct. So approve the budget package as amended. And then, just to keep things interesting, you will then vote...
 to approve the whole budget as amended. You'll call, you Mr. Mayor will call to entertain a motion, second, and vote to approve the budget as amended. It's somewhat duplicative, but it's a three-step process. Okay. Yeah.
 Sonia just had the best comment. She just said, keep voting until somebody tells us to stop. All right. I didn't even have the heart to tell you about voting to approve tax levies. Nor will you. We'll turn that page later. We're still on this page. Okay, good. So we will start, Carla, with public testimony. And Matt, you just still have your hand up. Carla, how many people are signed up for public testimony?
 Yes, Mary, we had eight people signed up, but I see we have nine people waiting. Okay, that's fine. Okay, and also before we start, somebody waiting to testify with the phone number ending in 0621. Could you identify yourself? That's a caller on the line 0621, if we could have your name. And you have to press star six to unmute. Okay.
 Well, looks like they dropped off. Yeah, call on them later, Carla, and if they're still interested in testifying, of course they can. So why don't you call the first individual. Three minutes, please, name for the record. The first person is Caitlin Gay. Good afternoon, Caitlin. Hello. Hi, city commissioners. My name is Caitlin. I am here speaking as an organizer on behalf of Care Not Cops.
 I know you've heard a lot about us. I also organize with Western Regional Advocacy Project and the Stop the Sweeps campaign, although I'm not officially representing them in this meeting, anyways.
 So basically I'm here to implore council members to reject any and all increases to the Portland Police Bureau's budget, ideally resulting in a reduction of the budget. Over $245 million are proposed to go towards the Portland Police Bureau, and this is not even including some of the money not factored into this budget, such as the contract between the Portland Police Bureau and Clean and Safe.
 Just think of where we could divert this money instead. Housing and tenant protections, free transit, and well-funded schools. Especially during a pandemic when many schools are going remote, access to technology and internet for students will be a huge priority. Luckily, we, alongside dozens of community organizations, know of at least three units within the Portland Police Bureau which could be eliminated. The gun violence reduction team, school resource officers, and transit police.
 The GVRT, as we all know, is formerly the gang enforcement team. A name change and slight restructuring of the department is not enough to make many communities, especially black and brown communities, feel safe from surveillance and harassment. The findings from the audit two years ago have not sufficiently been addressed. Eliminating this program can open up funding that will support programs which actually help us care for one another.
 In regards to the SROs, it is clear many students do not feel safe around them, as evidenced by the No SRO campaign last year. Furthermore, as a graduate from PSU, I can speak to my time working on the Disarm PSU campaign and saw firsthand the detrimental effect of having cops in educational settings, including the murder of Jason Washington.
 In my own experiences with my high school SRO, albeit I was in another state when I was a teenager, I very much remember how he had tackled students half his size and had even told students how he had killed someone when he was working for California Highway Patrol.
 He was not a great role model for students, and I foresee this happening in other schools with SROs. And I just wonder, are these the kind of adults we want around our youth and our community? And what kind of message are we sending? And finally, transit police are used to target poor people, especially houseless people who cannot afford fare. Imagine if we spent that money to make TriMet free and listen to Opal, who for years has advocated for the reinstatement of the Ambassador Program.
 All of these demands have remained consistent and will stay this way until we have these demands met. It is becoming increasingly clear police do not belong in our communities, yet we keep throwing money towards them. And so if we don't see these reductions this year, we're going to continue to fight in the fall, and this will continue to go forward. But we want to see more opportunities where we can...
 see these demands from the public continuously being met because we've seen various people say very similar things and it's just becoming increasingly concerning when we're seeing so many programs to help reduce policing but we don't actually see those reductions coming from the budget and it makes us wonder are we actually trying to
 find community care alternatives or are we just putting out rhetoric and not actually doing the things we need to do to take care of our community and just putting more money towards the police because that's what the business associations are saying and that is what the police union is saying um and that's all i have to say so thank you commissioners thank you caitlin for your perspective next individual please carla the next individual is hum nam
 Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Great. Hi. I'm Hyung Nam. I'm one of the coordinating committee members of the Portland Metro People's Coalition of over 20 community organizations. We were part of the community struggle last year over the city budget, especially to save the vital parks programs from cuts, which are not just about recreation, but vital things like childcare for families.
 That work led me to carefully study the city's budget and volunteer to serve on the budget advisory committee for the Portland Police Bureau. I've testified recently twice and also sent you all messages yesterday, laying things out in more detail about my experience, especially as a back member.
 Today, I want to highlight a few points and support the letter that PMPC has signed on to with many other community organizations, including Unite Oregon, Jobs with Justice, Portland Resistance, Portland DSA, and many others. I urge you to represent the interests of so many that these organizations represent.
 In this time of crisis, we need to rethink our budget priorities. Portland spends over 50% of its general funds on public safety, of which the majority goes to police. We need to think about what Portland really needs and think about what public safety means. The PPB has consistently shown that they don't serve the public. Their own study found that over 71% of Portland residents have little trust of the police, and that's even higher among people of color.
 PPB has also requested additional funds for overtime to police protests in this election year. From what we have seen, this is the opposite of public safety. It actually is inimical to public safety with the use of military weapons and so on.
 And also I've noticed in their requested budget that they've recently called for additional seven FTE for the SWAT team. I think this is completely wasteful and we would be better off redirecting these funds to vital needs for the public that are under threat in this crisis.
 Because so much of the general funds go to policing, a proportional cut to policing is not enough. Other vital services are far more needed, already functioning on meager budgets. We need to rethink our priorities and create a budget that serves all Portlanders. Therefore, we should make cuts to other programs
 that have been ineffective and opposed by Portlanders, like the GVRT, the SROs, and transit police. This crisis gives us a chance to carefully review our priorities and values. We need to redirect public funds from over-policing to essential services like parks and childcare, hygiene for houseless, housing, representation, and defense of immigrants, and to create our own public utilities such as municipal bank, internet,
 power, et cetera, that would all invest in the future and generate revenue and profit for the city to expand public services. Making these changes would help the city and be much more in line with the mission and values of our city. Thank you. Thank you for your perspective. We appreciate it. Carla, next individual. Is Andrew Riley. Hi, can you hear me?
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of the Portland City Council. For the record, my name is Andrew Riley. My pronouns are they and them, and I'm appearing today on behalf of Unite Oregon, where I'm a community organizer. And I'm here today to urge you to prioritize everyday Portlanders in your fiscal year 2021 budget by cutting the Portland Police Bureau's budget. Unite Oregon is a statewide grassroots community organization. We organize immigrants, refugees, people of color, and working class folks of all backgrounds.
 In short, the communities we work with and in are the most acutely overpoliced, the most systematically profiled, the most exposed to the violence of the criminal punishment system. And to be clear, that's not because our communities are somehow committing more criminal offenses than others, but rather because of where the Police Bureau has historically targeted its enforcement. I want to focus on a couple of special programs that we find egregious, that we urge you to cut, and because of our experience with them. And I want to echo everything that we heard from Care Not Cops and Portland Metro People's Coalition.
 First is transit police. I suspect you're going to hear this a lot today. The transit police are part and parcel of the criminalization of poor and unhoused folks on our transit system. It's admittedly a complicated program, right? TriMet funds large parts of it, but it's housed at the Portland Police Bureau. It uses PPB equipment and personnel. It regularly responds to police calls in the city of Portland, and to the lay observer, it appears to be an arm of the Portland Police Bureau.
 But as far as we can tell, the city has no affirmative obligation to carry out TriMet's enforcement priorities, and we urge you to cut all city funding for transit police. Additionally, we have active work in Portland Public and David Douglas schools. We engage parents as active participants in the educational system. And one of the top concerns we hear is the school-to-prison pipeline, particularly for the parents of Carla that we organize.
 We've heard loudly and clearly that one of the first steps towards dismantling that system, that pipeline, is eliminating the practice of putting police officers in schools. And while the name school resource officer sounds fairly innocuous, these are police officers with full police powers, and it's perhaps no surprise that according to the city's own budget office, 57% of arrests in and around schools in 2018 were of Black youth who comprised 10% of the school's population. We need to stop the criminalization of youth and invest in real safety.
 The budget in front of you, as I think you all know, is not just a bunch of line items on a page. As many have observed, including on this council, it's a moral document that reflects your priorities and commitments to our community. And that's why we're proud to sign on to the letter that Hyung mentioned with a growing list of organizations, including Portland's Resistance, Safe Routes to School, Portland Jobs of Justice, 350 PDX, DA for the People, Pacific Northwest Family Circle, and many others to call for all of the above cuts and more.
 As the coronavirus pandemic continues, we have to make some difficult choices about how to keep people healthy, safe, and whole. And we do not believe that we should be overinvesting our scarce resources in policing and punishment, but rather authentic community safety, health, and well-being. Thank you. Thank you for your perspective. We appreciate it. Carla, next. Excuse me, Mayor. Yes, Commissioner Hardesty. I have a question.
 Andrew, thank you very much for your testimony. I appreciate Unite Oregon, Care Not Comps, and Portland People's Coalition's perspective. I don't know if you heard, if you were here when the mayor was reading some amendments into the record, but you may have missed that there will be a process that Mayor Willard and I will be a part of,
 that will come back in front of the city council in February. That's really gonna take a deep look at all the specialty programs within the Portland Police Bureau. And quite frankly, to start the community conversation about what does community safety look like
 I hope that Unite Oregon, Care Not Cops, and the Portland People's Coalition will be partners with us in that effort because what we want is a police bureau that works for the community, and what we want is the community invested in telling us how they want to be pleased.
 So the opportunity is coming up very quickly. And I hope that you'll be proactive and work with us to come back with the best proposal possible in February of next year. Thank you. And one reasons why I support that process is
 and no disrespect meant to anybody, but there is a lot of misinformation out there about what is actually in the budget and what is not in the budget. And so I think more communications probably better than less. But thank you for being here to share your perspective. Next individual, please, Carla. Next is Emery Mort. Hello and welcome. Are they muted, Carla? I can't find the name. Yeah, they are muted.
 Pardon me. There you are. We hear you. Hello, Council. Good afternoon. My name is Emery Mort. He, him. And yeah, as to the comments Commissioner and Mayor just made, we are trying to follow the amendments as they unfold. And yeah, I definitely heard what you've said and appreciate that offer to work together going forward.
 So I'll now invite us to drift back to a few stories from the year related to public safety and policing. Counsel, recall the Jeremy Christian trial. You likely recall the detail as I do from the night before the tragic day on the train. On this night, Christian was on a train harassing and attacking a black woman. She testified about the events, which included him throwing a full heavy bottle directly into her eye.
 The police were called and an officer arrived. The black victim told the court the officer treated her as if she was the perpetrator, while Christian simply walked away, unsighted. A small typical moment, counsel, one small part in a chain of tragic events. Now remember another story, the December police shooting of Coven Henrickson in East Portland.
 One can read the 900 pages of grand jury transcript to hear from people like a mother sitting in line at Starbucks. She's there with her three-year-old in a car seat behind her. She describes the same thing as everyone, a man walking slowly. He's unwell. He's out of it. She sees the officers arrive, pull their truck up close. One gets out, pulls out a large rifle, and unleashes three explosive shots within seconds. A woman near her gets out of the car and starts running around in distress, shouting, they didn't need to do that. What could we have done?
 In the transcript, the DA verbally redirects the witness away from the scene. A seemingly younger officer in the transcript describes showing up, fulfilling his duty to go to the body shot by the senior officer who has a certification. He says, unfortunately, the department uses these rifle shells that are designed to expand when they hit human bodies, and unfortunately this is so they do a lot of damage. He describes a body with two of these bullets in the chest and one in the mouth.
 A final story, counsel, we have Black Portland auto auction employee Michael Fesser. It's been in the Oregonian for months now. I know some of you find it disturbing, as well you should. Despite deserved attention on West Lynn Police Department, much of the action, including the cover-up by the chief, was done by a highly trained former Portland police.
 GBRT and CERT officers known for their own decades of scandal. A lieutenant in West Lynn, former Portland gang officer, organized a half-dozen gang cops to apprehend Fesser, take his stuff, as retaliation for his totally obvious complaint of workplace racism. The lieutenant later retaliated again when Fesser refused to drop a lawsuit. He ordered his old colleagues to officially designate Fesser a dangerous person.
 Lieutenant did this whole scandal then he quit Westland PD soon after and he was hired the next day counsel by Oregon's Police Training Academy where he's now on suspension from training every new officer in the state. So these senior officers counsel running these special police programs and Oregon's largest police force don't need more money so that they can train each other to finally get it right one of these days. As you all know
 There's kind of two options. One is to make fringe changes or what we hope and maybe perhaps what's coming is to follow the letter Sent to you by a bunch of our community groups hold the police accountable in a real way You've got to execute governing power over their budget and their special elite units I don't see other ways to
 really address these issues and if not you who else are Portlanders and Oregonians supposed to go to to get real action on these problems outlined here and in many other forums and of course I echo the
 previous commentary and I thank you all for the work you're doing in these difficult times and I certainly look forward to working together to solve these problems as we go forward. Thanks. Thank you, Emery, for your perspective and I also want to answer your question. The question was, if not us, who do you go to? You know you can come to us and you do and while I don't always agree with you, I do appreciate your perspective and I appreciate the fact that you
 participate in these discussions. But you can also go to our state legislature, where for two years, we have had a police accountability bill languish because the legislature doesn't seem to be able to ever have a quorum at the time that our public safety accountability bill is ready to be supported. It
 It has now come out of the Senate unanimously, and I think this year it had a good showing where it started in the House. I can't remember, honestly, if it was unanimous, but it was significant, if not unanimous. But again, that bill did not pass because, once again, there was not a quorum for the legislature to continue. So I would also encourage that there is an opportunity for us to join forces in areas where we do agree, and that is most certainly one of them.
 Thank you for your testimony. Next is Eric Nordstrom. Good afternoon, Eric.
 Good afternoon mayor and commissioners. Can you hear me? Yes loud and clear. Thank you First of all, I want to thank you for all that you do for your city for our city And I'm here to testify in support of greater funding for Iraq and the arts My name is Eric Nordstrom. My pronouns are he him I've been working in the arts for nearly 20 years as a filmmaker performing artist arts educator and arts nonprofit employee
 Now, more than ever, strong funding for the arts is the right choice for the prosperity of our city and its citizens. Art connects us to our humanity, creates community, and provides an outlet to express our fears, needs, and perhaps most importantly right now, our hopes for a better tomorrow. It's these qualities that are important at any time, but especially now.
 I urge your full and continued support of organizations like RAC that help to fund the immediate year-to-year fiscal needs of artists in Portland. I also urge you to look into the future and to create a long-term plan for the development of arts venues to support the needs of artists as our city grows.
 Although the funding may not currently be available for the development of arts venues, I encourage you to make the plan now, because how are we going to get to the spot to support arts venues in the future without having that plan in place now? Currently, looking at smaller arts venues in Portland, around 100 seats,
 These venues are struggling to hold on during this hard economic time. Medium-sized venues of around 200 to 350 seats are practically non-existent and mostly not accessible for many artists in Portland. I understand that budget cuts are being made across the board.
 However, when making those cuts, I urge you to please keep in mind the value of the arts, especially at moments of turmoil like this, and also to please put a plan in place for the development of arts venues so in better economic times, we can have a brighter future to look forward to. There's never an easy time to fund the arts. However, the right time is now. Thank you very much. Thank you, Eric. We appreciate it. I was going to say you're a meat mayor.
 I beat you to it, Commissioner, but just barely. Barely. Thanks, Eric. Appreciate it. Next, Carla. It's Scout Zabel. Hi. My name is Scout. I live in North Portland. I'm a preschool teacher, and I organize with Care Not Crops. We do not yet know what the extent of the ramifications of COVID-19 will be on our communities. We do know that those who have been and will continue to be the most affected by the pandemic are communities who are already socially and economically marginalized.
 It is notable that these same communities are the most threatened by law enforcement's punitive measures to violently enforce new COVID-19-era directives.
 We know that strategies to mitigate the economic fallout of COVID-19 involve massive budget cuts to many different departments. However, a 5.6% cut across this entire city budget does not address the varying utility of these programs during this time. Rather, the depth of this crisis requires us to reimagine the way that we allocate city funding altogether.
 We want to emphasize that those departments which offer life-affirming resources are more crucial than ever, and funding to them must be prioritized. We have and have always had the funding to support these programs. It has been funneled year after year into the ever-increasing Portland Police Bureau budget. This budget, which has grown by $47 million in only the last four years, needs to be the well from which these necessary resources are pulled.
 If you are frustrated with the misinformation surrounding the city budget, look to the significant lack of opportunity for public input this year. Only one public hearing for us to comment on the mayor's proposed budget and then now, today, the day of the vote. The dissolution of the gun violence reduction team as well as that of school resource officers, transit police, would offer $14 million alone that could be allocated towards accessible housing, rent relief, public transit, education, or COVID-19 stimulus.
 With schools and city programs closed, we have even greater concern that the GVRT will escalate its well-documented efforts to target black and brown youth. These students who are now learning from home for the rest of the year need teachers, advisors, and social workers, not school resource officers. Public transit must be made free and accessible to essential workers, and those seeking essential services not exist as another site of surveillance and harassment.
 I was under the impression that amendments would be offered today that would have addressed the elimination of these programs. Now. Not a further conversation in February. People need these resources now. The failure to do so is a betrayal. The difficult decisions made today will have reverberating impacts well into our future. We have an opportunity to fund people, not policing. Your loyalties are showing. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. Is Joanna Brenner.
 Joanna? I'm here. Can you hear me? Yep, loud and clear. Good to go. Great. My name is Johanna Brenner.
 I'm on the Coordinating Committee of the Portland Metro's People Coalition and I'm speaking in support of the letter, which we along with other community organizations have written. We argue that in this time of crisis, the city needs to rethink how we understand public safety. I wanna thank Commissioner Hardesty for taking the lead on further scrutinizing the special police programs that our group has highlighted as problems
 And I look forward to all of us participating in the process that she and the mayor have initiated. Today I'm gonna talk about a different area of our letter. And that is the question of the police overuse of overtime as a budget issue.
 I wanna point out that the city's auditors report in 2018 identified problems and as far as I can tell, as we can tell, although the budget is extremely opaque and it was very difficult to compare this year's budget to last year's budget because of changes in how the budget was configured. There has not been any real movement on this question.
 The auditor identified between 13 and $15 million spent on overtime. The North Precinct, for example, had overtime usage on over 40% of its afternoon shifts.
 Although the Bureau claims that overtime is the result of being short staffed, the auditor's report identified management failure to adequately manage staffing as a cause of the excessive use of overtime, which is also extremely costly in terms of paying people. As you know, Portland does not cap overtime, allowing patrol officers to work more than 20 hours a week,
 They did so over 1,000 times in 2018. Other cities have limits, Denver, Colorado, and San Francisco, California, cap overtime at 24 and 20 hours respectively.
 In addition to mismanaging staffing and allowing officers to work excessive overtime, the Bureau allows officers to work as private security guards for local corporate businesses, such as the downtown Apple Store and event venues. There is no evidence that this program is an appropriate activity for public employees, nor that these corporations are incapable of supplying their own security.
 Secondary employment is the third highest cause of overtime. Overtime work is not only a monetary problem. It is a problem in terms of what happens to police who work excessive overtime. They're more prone to accidents and injuries. They have a higher incidence of burnout. They use sick time more often and so forth.
 Over time and fatigue also negatively affect the relationship between police and the community. When officers work long hours, they are also more likely to engage in abusive interactions with residents,
 And they are also more likely to be estranged from the community that they serve. Reduce social interactions and isolation from community and support systems breeds an us versus them attitude in the police, which as we know is one of the major reasons that we have such a difficult time exercising police accountability in the city.
 Although the city asked the Bureau to do a better job, as I said, the Bureau has not shown any success in this area, it has come back to the council without demonstrating any reduction in their budget request. Finally, I wanna note that the Bureau has requested additional funding to police public protests. This should be denied. There is no justification for over-policing of the people's exercise of their democratic rights
 I should point out that in addition to being counter-post to democracy, the militarization of policing at protests has been costly to the city, leading to successful lawsuits from individuals who have been injured exercising their right to protest.
 I want to thank you very much for listening to us during this very difficult and challenging time. And I hope that our voices will continue to be heard and that at some point, we can see some movement on these issues. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you for your perspective, Johanna. The last person who signed up is Samuels Hobbs. Could you say the name again, Carla, please? That's Samuel Hobbs.
 Samuel, are you on board with this? Yeah. Can you hear me? Yeah. Loud and clear. Okay. Wonderful. Thank you. My name is Samuel Howes. Pronouns are he, him, they.
 They them I'm sharing my voice today in support of Portland's arts ecosystem and regional arts and culture council I share my voice because in times and struggle we ultimately turn to art to anchor us I also share my voice because we often think of art as an addendum to business and a sideline item we need to start reframing this understanding so that we can more effectively support business in the future and
 When we think about the viability and value of art as a priority in Portland, we must consider the realities that this is not just about, quote unquote, art or making art. It is about business, technology, health, science, education, and our economy. Artists ultimately create entire ecosystems of jobs, not only for artists, but for
 but for technical writers, photographers, videographers, graphic web designers, administrators, financial consultants, tax preparers, food vendors, advertisers, wedding planners, bars, baristas, real estate agents, taxpayers, and many more. Artists have provided necessary resources for the advancement of prosthetics and biomechanics research. We have consulted, directed, and acted in movies and advertisements. We have done motion capture suits and have become creatures in blockbusters of movies. Artists.
 This has reshaped entire health industries and how doctors and physical occupational therapists understand pain, injury, and recovery. And we have helped veterans cope with the ravages of war. And we have provided an outlet for our children to express their beauty and fascination with the world. We teach discipline and focus. We teach the importance of failure. And more importantly, we teach the power of persistence and resilience.
 These are the realities of the value and viability arts. Every item I have mentioned demonstrate the demand for arts and the prudence, including art in business and city's decisions. Arts are ultimately the lifeblood of our economy, and we drive the housing market. We create a world where people want to live. Since the beginning of the social distancing protocols, we have seen the importance of art within our nation.
 Within the first weeks of social distancing protocols here in Oregon, Catherine Diesenhoff, an Portland dancer, created an online international resource called Dancing Alone Together that connects everyday students and people with global dance luminaries and teachers. All of our dance studios, or many of them, have transitioned to all-versional classes, and we have witnessed many of our friends and family members.
 joined movement and dance classes for the very first time in their lives. Just to give you an idea of the viability of these programs, Kate Wallach, a Seattle-based dance artist, ended up creating a virtual offering of her classes during quarantine where a single dance class held twice a week hosts over 4,500 people in one class, asking for a suggested donation of $15. Her program is called Dance Church, and so I will leave you to do that math.
 In regards to RAC, I have received two grants from the Regional Arts and Culture Council since my time in Portland, which is 2012, I suppose. And, yeah.
 I have applied for my third this spring. My company receives support from RAC's Cultural Leadership Program. With RAC's assistance and guidance, I have learned to write grants, I have learned to connect with grantors and foundations, write budgets, and plan for my company's future. With the two grants that I have received from the Regional Arts and Culture Council, I have produced my first evening-length work in 2018. And last year, I launched a resource for Portland called the Union PDX Festival of Contemporary Dance.
 and the Portland Dance Community Awards. Last year with RAC funding, I commissioned two female choreographers, hired production and technical staff, rented space at the Portland Opera, celebrated four Portland Arts heroes for their service to the community, provided professional level master classes, and hosted artist talks and student outreach performance.
 Administrators and arts organizations from all over the Northwest attended, including White Bird, the Portland Art Museum, Pike, a Velocity Dance Center up in Seattle, and the University of Oregon, just to name a few. All of this would not have been possible without the support from the Regional Arts and Culture Council and other arts organizations, artists that rely upon the funding from the city of Portland. Portland would not be considered the international arts hub that it is without the support of the city of Portland.
 Right now, Portland, like many institutions, are facing decisions concerning how to move forward in a post-social distancing world. You are asking hard questions regarding arts funding and business, questioning the viability of arts programming and funding for the future, and ultimately weighing them based on their perceived marketability. I'm hoping that I've increased or expanded your idea of what the perceived marketability of arts are in Portland.
 Ultimately, we really need to start thinking about how we can position Portland for the future, like Eric Norson was talking about, and start building a plan. And for me, and for many artists who rely upon the services of Portland, the funding from Portland and the services and funding that we receive from RAC, that future requires appropriate funding for the Regional Arts and Culture Council. I think that's all I have to say at this moment. All right. Thank you, Samuel. We appreciate you coming and testifying today.
 And Commissioner Udaly has her hand up. Thank you, Mayor. I have Madison Cario from RAC here who was supposed to be on the testimony list. Can they speak? I think any time Madison comes and listens to us all, given how busy she is, she deserves to be heard. Thank you. How are you today?
 I'm great. Good afternoon, mayor and commissioners. Let's see, for the record, my name is Madison Cario, pronouns they, them. You know, I'm the executive director of the Regional Arts and Culture Council, and I am here on behalf of RAC and for the artists, creatives, and arts and culture organizations that call Portland their home. The idea that artists and creatives will just be there when this is over is unrealistic.
 I don't know when this will be over, but I do know that without thoughtful, equitable, and generous support, they won't. They can't. What kind of city will ours be, and how will we heal without arts and culture? You know the economic impact. $364 million in annual expenditures from nonprofits, $9.9 million in attendance, and an additional $323 million that audiences spend when they attend arts events.
 That's when we're in business, but we're not in business right now, and we need funding to make it to the other side. I know there's a lot of pressure on this current budget, and I appreciate the work that you are doing. We all have a role to play, a piece of this burden to carry. RAC is doing their part. January, we took a deep dive into our operations and made changes that were both necessary and incredibly difficult.
 We let go of good people and cut expenses so we could be better stewards of public dollars and focus more deeply on service while advancing advocacy and fundraising. When fully funded, RAC actually gets 85% of all the funds directly into the hands of the community. With the AEAF collection for fiscal year 21 anticipated to come in with a 75 to 100% reduction, every penny in special appropriations matters.
 Since the onset of the stay-at-home order, RAC went into action immediately, launching a statewide survey to identify the needs and setting up a fund for those most vulnerable, the individuals. To date, we have funded 348 people, $192,000, with over 34% of the awards going to people who identify as Black, Indigenous, and people of color.
 We gathered art funders from across the state, private and public, and created a pooled fund which launched a few weeks ago. That's now up to 1.5 million. Cuts to special appropriations now will result in the closure of organizations and the loss of creatives in Portland.
 Your support of RAC will enable us to help sustain hundreds of organizations and individuals until they can pivot and hopefully someday soon get back to what they do best. Inspiring, delighting, inviting, and challenging you in every neighborhood, every day. Artists are truly Portland's secret weapon. That's what this money gets you.
 I want to close with a quote from the late and blessed Toni Morrison. There is no time for despair, no place for self-pity, no need for silence, no room for fear. We speak, we write, we do language. This is how civilizations here. Thank you for listening. Thank you very much, Madison. We appreciate the great work you do. Commissioner Udayli, do you have another comment or is that just a residual hand raise?
 Very good. All right, so next we are going to vote on the individual amendments that have already been moved and seconded. I would propose this colleagues, first I'll get to Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a comment? Commissioner Fritz? I can mute if you do. Sorry. Yeah. So you're proposing that we discuss each? No. Previously it was said we'd have a discussion and then do the amendments,
 We're gonna discuss each one as we go through. Here's what I would propose just by, because a lot of these are consensus amendments and a number of them are technical. So what I was gonna suggest is we go through each block of the amendments and then if individual commissioners
 either have questions about specific amendments or comments about specific amendments. That might be the most expedient way to do this unless people would prefer to do it some other way.
 Okay, that's fine. We can just, as we get to each one, we can discuss it if we want to. Okay. So in the block of amendments I put forward, most of those are technical amendments and no particular surprise. There are a few that I would like to comment on and I'd like to start on amendment number six, unless somebody has questions about one, two, three, four, or five first, okay?
 and i don't see anybody jumping at that opportunity uh we can always come back if somebody does uh you'll recall that amendment six is the one uh that uh amends attachment d and outs a budget note regarding the portland police specialty units and we had a little bit of back and forth during the public testimony period
 I just want to put on the record that we've obviously been talking about the Portland Police Bureau specialty units for many years, predating my time on the City Council and probably predating everybody's time on the City Council. But this council hasn't really had time yet for a thoughtful conversation about.
 leading to decisions about how we want to use the specialty units. This budget note proposes that Commissioner Hardesty and I work together
 to consider the use of specialty units in the city of Portland and then return to the council early next year. This will give us both the time to have a thoughtful conversation and the opportunity to make any changes in next year's budget. And so I think you heard thoughtful commentary on that. I don't know if anybody had any more questions on six, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to share a couple of comments on that.
 As you know, I had originally put in some amendments that would have disbanded some of these specialty units, including the transit police, including the school resource officers, and including the gun violence reduction team. But because of the brilliant work of your office and the police bureau's willingness,
 as well as the ongoing work of the public health group. It makes perfect sense to me that we are gonna be very thoughtful about this and do it in a way that really
 is intentional rather than doing it in a very rushed budget process. My preference of course, before I even got on the city council were that all those units never existed. But being as they do, I am very grateful that you worked with my office to come up with this compromise. And I think it's the right thing to do. And I just wanted to put that on the record that I appreciate it working with your office to come to this agreement.
 Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. I appreciate that very much. And just a reminder on amendment number seven, because I know some people were confused about that because the entire amendment is scratched out. And I just want to be clear that is effectively a motion to withdraw
 Amendment seven, following council conversation about the benefits of co-locating the domestic violence specialty unit with the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence, I moved to withdraw the note. And in doing that, I wanted to be clear on two particular points. First of all, a lot of good and thoughtful work went into the original proposal and I want that work to continue. And second of all, I commit that this specialty unit won't move out of the building in the short term
 or without a conversation with my colleagues and i want to thank commissioner hardesty for acknowledging the challenge of keeping the specialty unit in this building which is a lease that costs almost three hundred thousand dollars a year and i appreciate the partnership and finding resources to offset that lease and potentially uh leverage uh
 opportunities for the Gateway Center to revisit the terms of that lease. So I just wanted to put that comment in the record. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, if I may, before you leave that topic. The reality is that the Gateway Domestic Violence Center provides some incredible services for our community, and they are cramped right now. And so I believe that there may be opportunities if we take the time to relocate both Portland Police that works with the Gateway Domestic Violence Center as well as the Gateway Domestic Violence Center.
 They have not said this, but if you've ever spent any time there, it is definitely an elbow-elbow operation. And they do the best they can with limited space. But I hope that we take this opportunity to really be creative. The mistake you made was putting me on the committee, asking me if I would serve, unfortunately.
 And I'm trying to serve you and the community well, because you asked me to do that. So I appreciate you pulling that recommendation because it is vital that those relationships are strengthened and not torn apart based on economic needs.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Appreciate it. No regrets. Amendment 8, the parks position related to tree planting. I just wanted to be clear, this was an amendment to authorize an additional position in the Portland Parks and Recreation Urban Forestry Division. This is a position that would be funded from the Urban Forestry's Tree Planning and Preservation Fund.
 And I wanted to be clear, it will not have a general fund impact. The incumbent in that position is going to help manage the design and the implementation of the Bureau's tree planning program with an emphasis on growing the tree canopy in East Portland, something we actually heard about on an unrelated item earlier this morning. Okay.
 And as PPR shared, PPR shared during their sustainable future work session last November, tree planning is a very important part of our shared climate public health and equity goals. This position is a down payment on putting that, that work in motion. And I think we heard from Bob Salinger on a completely unrelated issue this morning on that very subject.
 With regard to item number nine, the film office, I wanted to just add a couple of clarifying points on that. I was very pleased to introduce that amendment to provide general fund resources, which will support 50%
 of the Portland Film Office's budget. The remaining 50% of the budget would be supported through an increased fee on film permits. We heard loudly and clearly from the film industry that this office is vital to the success here in Portland. And I also wanna clarify that the industry is willing to play a significant part of this office's success.
 And so I just want to say that I'm grateful to my colleagues, to staff, and the dedicated professionals in the film industry who worked hard with us to find this compromise solution that allows the film office to be funded in the next fiscal year. This pandemic, of course, is presenting us with unprecedented challenges, but I'm glad it's also leading us to find very creative solutions with our private sector partners. So I want to thank everybody who worked with us on that.
 That completes, unless anybody has any questions about other of my amendments, we'll move on to Commissioner Hardesty's amendments, or excuse me, Commissioner Fritz's amendments.
 Commissioner Hardesty, you have your hand raised, but I think that's still from last time. That was just left over hand raised. I'll put it down. No worries. Does anybody have any follow up questions about Commissioner Fritz's amendments or does Commissioner Fritz have any further discussion on her amendments?
 I think everybody made some comments this morning on the resiliency resolution, and I appreciate that each one of you acknowledges that the Office of Equity
 can't do what it needs to do unless it's properly resourced. This budget, in fact, doesn't fully fund the Office of Equity and the work that it has to do, but it does start to correct some of the structural problems. And I'm hoping that with each of your shared commitments to the Office of Equity that next year you'll look at increasing resources for it. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Any further comments or questions? Anybody on the amendments put forth and seconded in Commissioner Fritz's grouping? With that, we'll move to Commissioner Udaly's amendments. There were three. Does anybody have any follow-up? Or Commissioner Udaly, any further thoughts on your amendments? Yeah, Mayor, I would just like to read into the record what I just shared with the public.
 I was surprised and disappointed to hear that I may not have the support needed to partially restore the budget cut to RAC. So here is what I just said to our community.
 I'm proud to be your Arts Commissioner. I have been involved in Portland's arts community since I was a teenager and I spent 22 years supporting Portland's literary and visual arts community through my bookshop. Today, council is considering a package of amendments to the mayor's proposed budget.
 We seem to be in agreement and have community support for most of the amendments. However, the one that's up in the air is my amendment to partially restore the 9% cut to Regional Arts and Culture Council. I'm surprised that the small allocation, $147,000 from the general fund contingency, which was supported by the mayor and the budget office is in question.
 Our arts community from individual artists to nonprofit organizations to our independent venues are under threat. Artists who may be self-employed or independent contractors are still waiting for unemployment relief in month three. Performers, performing arts presenters and venues that depend on large gatherings have no financially viable way to buy their trade or run their businesses and may not for another year.
 The potential impact of Portland's art and culture landscape and community is devastating. Portland has built its brand, I hate that word, on the backs of our arts community. A multi-million dollar industry that provides thousands of jobs is a major tourism attraction and drives businesses to hotels, restaurants, and retailers across the city.
 but we haven't done enough to preserve or foster this community that is so essential, not just to our local economy, but to our hearts and spirit. I made a modest ask, reduce the cut to rack to align cuts to our city bureaus.
 What I really want is full funding restored to RAC in light of the disparate impact to the arts community and our historic underfunding of the arts. I'd also like to see the city commit to seeding an arts venue relief fund of at least a million dollars, an investment on par with cities such as Seattle, San Francisco, and Austin. This partial restoration of RAC's budget cut would be a small but meaningful step towards supporting our vital arts community.
 I want to thank everyone who has emailed, called, and provided testimony in support of RAC. I've received more emails about this budget item in the last 24 hours than almost any other issue that's come up during a budget session.
 And finally, I think we need some clarity on what this $147,000 will be used for by RAC. And I want to invite Madison to answer that. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. And Madison, before you respond, I owe you an apology I used earlier.
 incorrect pronouns in speaking to you earlier. And I want to apologize. I know that you go by they and them, and I apologize for that mistake. Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate that.
 This money will go directly to our capacity building program, which is a multi-year, it's an intentional investment over time in communities that have historically not had access to our mainstream funding, which is for general operating support. So that's exactly what we would do. We would continue this program for another three years.
 Very good, thank you. And Commissioner Ailey, unless you have more, I see Commissioner Fritz have her hand raised as well on this item. I just wanted to ask Madison to give some examples of the organizations that are being supported. As the point of order, excuse me, Mayor.
 Point of order. Is it appropriate for people to bring people in to advocate for a financial position? I mean, I'm feeling very uncomfortable that I am sitting here listening to, I mean, anybody that wants money from our budget should be able to come and advocate for it. But this does not feel appropriate when we're deliberating on how we're going to spend the money. I think everybody's made the case for why they want money.
 But I'm just feeling like this is just like not appropriate. So I just want to ask the question. Well, I'm the arts commissioner and Madison is the director of RAC. And I wasn't aware that this item wasn't going to be supported until it was too late in the day to mobilize support since we're requiring people to sign up on the Tuesday before council. I believe it is well within my rights to invite someone to testify. It is.
 And Commissioner Hardesty, your point is well taken. I made a specific exception in this case just because I could see that Madison was on the line and she'd been here. And so as a matter of course, you are correct. But I made this exception for Commissioner Udaly since Madison was on the line. Well taken. There should be consistency. Commissioner Fritz? Yes.
 Thank you. I appreciate that 250 people sent us emails over the past three days. I've answered, I think, most of them. Many of them didn't understand that RAC is taking the same cut that everybody is taking. And in fact, the bureaus, although the...
 extra amount from the bureaus is 5.6%. The overall cut, counting some of the other measures that the mayor directed, is more like 9%. And it's also significant that some of the special appropriations received a 50% cut. I'm glad to hear that the film office is now funded because that was completely cut as well. And we know that...
 that people are hurting. It's hard to read those 250 emails and hear how challenging things are. On the other hand, we know that restaurants are really hurting. Restaurant workers are hurting. Childcare workers are hurting. There's all kinds of...
 great work going on in our community that we wish we had the money to fund. The only way we're going to have more to spread around to other needs is that everybody takes a trim at this point, including the city bureaus and programs. And
 RAC will still receive 3.95 million in general fund with additional funding from the arts tax. And if the level of payment from the arts tax is going to be an issue, then we should address that issue as far as how it's collected as a fund.
 so that that becomes more equitable. I know that Commissioner Newdaly has begun work on that. The council has demonstrated commitment to arts and culture and will continue to do so. And I just think it's unfortunate that one segment of our community knew enough to, or was encouraged to send in a bunch of emails and to come and testify when others perhaps didn't know that there was that opportunity. Are you serious?
 That is how this literally works every year. And I want to point out the film office was not going away. It's the position, the liaison position that wasn't funded. And there's no work to do right now. So we're putting half of the money that I'm requesting for RAC into paying for a position for which there's no work to do right now.
 Also, the budget, the cut of 9% was applied to the special appropriation budget. And my argument is that RAC has a special relationship to the city and therefore should be treated more like a bureau than any other special appropriation group, and I might add that they've already made massive cuts to their staff. So they actually don't have more to cut.
 This is a small amount of money. I just, I'm just baffled by what I'm hearing. All right, are we done with our conversation on that particular item?
 Any further comments on anything in Commissioner Udalli's list here? If not, we'll move to Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Hardesty, was there more you wanted to say on any of your amendments or colleagues? Did you have any thoughts or questions on any of Commissioner Hardesty's amendments? I have only one.
 I have nothing to add, Mayor, but have any questions. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. I appreciate that. Commissioner Fritz had a question.
 I have a friendly amendment to offer on the motion to allocate $50,000 in ongoing general fund resources to support accessibility to city communications. And this is based on feedback from the experts in the Office of Equity and Human Rights. They point out that this is required by law.
 And so the language in the motion needs to reflect that. So Tim is going to share by chat the proposed amendments. But basically, the amendment language, the title itself stays the same, but then accessibility to city communications is vital for civic engagement, community empowerment and safety.
 accessibility must be a core tenant rather than should be a core tenant of all city communications, and then add in ensuring the city's compliance with civil rights Title VI and ADA Title II.
 than continuing as before, but not all bureaus have the same access to resources needed to ensure that communications reach strike everyone and then insert all community members, in particular limited English proficiency communities and people with disabilities. The rest of it proposed to make the same. I would suggest that as a friendly amendment. I see that as a friendly amendment. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you. And can we just to make sure we've got that all cleaned up because I know that legal counsel will come back at me later. Can we accept that as just a friendly amendment or do we need to take an actual, have a motion and a second in order to accept that? If you move Commissioner Fritz, I'll second.
 The preference would be to move and second on that. Okay, we have a motion. So then I move it as a friendly amendment. And I second. Okay, so we have a motion as a friendly amendment and Commissioner Hardesty seconds it. So we now have an amendment to Amendment 3, correct? That is correct. And that is now on the table.
 Good, thank you for that. Just wanna make sure I don't go to budget jail. I hear it's the most boring of all jails known to mankind and womankind and others. All right, next. I have a comment on item number six.
 And this is relating to the Sobering Center. And the Sobering Center service, from my perspective, has an important medical aspect. It also has a public safety aspect. And the discussion about the best way to move this work forward should be coordinated between all of the city's public safety bureaus and the public safety work group. And they definitely provide a very good forum where all of those bureaus work together.
 That being said, the program update work has already begun. It's been happening out of my office, and it's on a faster timeline than this particular budget note proposes. And I want to be very clear that I will ensure that the work is coordinated with the city's public safety bureaus. And I share Commissioner Hardesty's goal of taking a very thoughtful, collective approach to
 to this discussion and I will ensure that the other public safety bureaus are part of the discussion about how to do this work going forward but at this time I do not support this particular budget note and I just wanted to be honest about that and why. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you Matt.
 Just make sure I'm switching between screens properly. Yes. So on that note, I believe that part of the discussion, and actually on number seven as well, should be should the city be...
 funding and managing the sobering services, or is that something that Multnomah County should do? And we know that the previous contractor, Central City Concern, had multiple reasons for not providing it. And also that over the years that I've been on the council, we've had multiple conversations about who does what. And I would suggest that it might be better for both the
 It might be better to amend number seven to certainly reduce the ongoing discretionary resources in the Portland Police Bureau. And I appreciate Commissioner Hardesty and her team noticing that it was still in there. The money needs to be set aside, but I'm not sure right now if we're at the point of saying that it should be supporting a new sobering program in the fall month or perhaps
 perhaps that money should be transferred to the county and they would take on responsibility for that. Commissioner Fritz, I do have a thought on that. That is actually a very good and a very important discussion. And that is part of the overall discussion about where this should live. And your logic is impeccable as always. However, there are negotiations to be had on this subject. But let's just say that is very much a live discussion.
 Okay, I will leave it to that. I did have a question about not funding the disparity study. We just in the spring bump decided funded the disparity study and I'm kind of bemused as to why we would now not fund it. Could you explain that please Commissioner Hardesty? I'm happy to explain that Commissioner Frist, but I want to if I if you don't mind, let me respond to Mayor Wheeler's
 a question around the chairs program first. And Commissioner Fritz, you beat me to the punch because Central City Concern provided this program for 30 years.
 And the way they provided it was not based on the best medical advice. It was a very, you know, it was basically just a cell that people dried out in. And after sitting down and talking to the service providers at Central City Concern, I was very grateful that a community-based organization said, we know better now. We know that putting people in these sterile cells when they are inebriated or are
 are overdosing on drugs is not the most appropriate way to provide assistance. And so I'm surprised, I guess, and heartened to hear that this work is happening in the mayor's office. But the budget note,
 I think is important because I think we need to make that decision outside of policing and do it with medical professionals. Will police officers on the street benefit from whatever the new quote unquote sobering system will be? Of course they will, but it should not be based on police practices. It should be based on what are the best medical practices.
 This is why I moved this amendment forward, because we know that treatment has changed radically, as have the severeness of the kind of detoxification that community members need. And so I'm always challenged by why the police have so many of these community contracts that really should be...
 based on the best medical information that we have. So I hope that as the mayor and I continue to work through kind of looking at this specialty stuff, we also start really looking at these contracts because some of them just don't make sense to me that they would be between the police bureau and the community. They should be between the city of Portland and the community. And so this $1.9 million contract that we have now,
 is the reason why I wanted to make sure that we weren't using that money either for overtime or for other purposes that had not been directed by this council. So that was why I was intentional about putting this in. But Mayor, I'm not clear about what your process is right now and when we can expect a new proposal to come forward. Let me follow up with you. I don't have a specific timeline
 at my immediate disposal, but maybe I can even get one before this hearing is completed. That would be helpful. And then because I would ask that if we're not ready to reallocate it, that we do take the money out of the Portland Police budget anyway, and we put it into contingency until we come up with another plan.
 Yeah, I support that. That's fine. We're not planning on using those resources for anything else. We see this service is critically important, and so I can make that commitment to you now. Sonia is telling me she believes the timeline is late summer to come back. So if I hear otherwise, I'll make sure I correct that.
 Appreciate that. Thank you. Yeah, you got it. Now, Commissioner Fritz question about the disparity study. This is one of those times when I can say after 20 years of testifying in front of Portland City Council on disparate outcomes and contracting for the city of Portland, I can tell you that there have been four disparity studies and the 20-25 years that I have been advocating at the city of Portland.
 And we cannot point to one that actually has changed the outcomes for contractors that are women, that are people of color, that are led by BIPOC community members. The city of Portland with few exceptions, and PBOT I will hold up as an exception,
 With few exceptions, we are woefully inadequate at holding purchasing accountable for actually diversifying our contracting pool. And a disparity study by itself won't fix it.
 I remember when we did a 13-biome disparity study, and then leadership change, and it sat on the shelf for a decade before we started spending more money on more disparity studies. So I have no interest in funding a study that will do absolutely nothing to change the outcomes for BIPOC business owners in this community.
 I would much rather spend those dollars actually investing in outcomes. The disparity studies don't do anything except make people feel a little more comfortable about knowing that we are getting disparate outcomes, and we continue to get disparate outcomes. In the auditor's report, the auditor's audit on our...
 Our procurement processes will reaffirm that every program we have is a colossal failure in actually achieving the outcomes that we say we want. So that is why I do not want to fund a disparity study. All right, any further discussions on anything that we have left off at this point?
 All right, so. Mayor? No, Mayor? Yeah. I had another question and maybe this is for Tom Reinhart on the Eighth Amendment about the timing of the implementation of the public safety alignment. I'm happy to answer that for you unless Tom just wants to jump in because he's bored because he's been here so long and hasn't been able to talk.
 Let me just say that I spoke with Tom Reinhart, and that's why we moved it from a July implementation to an October, because the office needed more time to make it work, and we wanted to respect the fine work that the public safety work groups are currently doing, and trust the fact that that process will help us do it in a better fashion, and a less disruptive manner.
 Is that accurate, Tom, or you want to add anything? Tom's giving me a thumbs up. That is accurate, thanks, Commissioner. Thank you very much, Tom. So the budget note is for October rather than July? That is correct. Thank you. But the work will start as soon as we pass this budget. It's just that that process will happen as of October 1st. It could be sooner, depending on how efficient Tom becomes with this process. Thank you. All right.
 Mayor? Yes, Commissioner Udalli. I've had my hand up to comment on the disparity study. Oh, I'm sorry. I scrolled down. I apologize, Commissioner Udalli. Go ahead. So this is an item that I support and I'm very interested in further discussions on. We've gone through two disparity studies and haven't made progress that we should have made by this point.
 Our contract equity practices are still based on compliance with broken systems rather than bold solutions that bring about true change. I'm concerned that the methodology of disparity studies as defined by the Supreme Court
 is focused on statistical analysis of available firms. This prohibits us from considering the deep systemic disparities that have caused a diminished overall pool of contracting firms due to our history as a white utopia in Oregon. I'd like to further explore how we can incorporate performance-based contracting practices into our low-bid model.
 This could involve an exemption to the low bid model altogether, or it could involve a change in the definition of lowest responsible bidder, which we've discussed before. Because in my mind, if we put out a contract for bid and say that we want 20% utilization rate of MWDSB and they come back under it, that's not being a responsible or responsive bidder.
 PBOT has been a leader on NWESB contracting. I'm strongly committed to this work, but I do not believe that the disparity study is the right way to do it. And finally, I just wanna give a shout out to Kerry Waters at PBOT, who's been doing the community building work to move the needle on contracting. Thanks. Commissioner Fritz, you have your hand up.
 I have it back up. Yeah. My recollection, and I think it was just a couple of weeks ago, was that Lester Spittler said that if we can't have hard standards on low bid contracts and
 unless we do the disparity study because the last one is too old. In response to the concern that they're not done well, we've learned a lot and this time we could do it, starting with the Black Lives Matter.
 black indigenous people of color to design the study to do it properly. So I know that Lester's on the call as well. I don't know if there's more to be said because the alternative is that everything has to go to the construction manager, general contractor, which is how you get better outcomes for in transportation. And I would say that in parks, the bond measure, we've got excellent outcomes also. So given that we have to do low,
 low bid unless we do the more expensive, more, the longer CMGC process. What's one of the trade-offs in that in terms of workload for the procurement office and in terms of getting the contract work done?
 Were you hoping Lester would answer that question? Mayor, I'd like to respond to that myself. Thank you, Mr. Hardesty. Thank you for that, Commissioner Fritz. Let me just say that the last time we did the 14-volume disparity study, I was working for Multnomah County Chairwoman Beth Stein in the county office.
 came up with a proposal out of that disparity study that we would just require contractors at a certain amount to actually reach out to a minority firm, a woman owned firm, and a emerging small business firm. And they had to contract with one of those firms.
 There are so many things the city of Portland can do if it wanted to as it relates to procurement that has absolutely nothing to do with a disparity study. So it is a way to hide.
 um, and effectiveness when we say we can't make changes because we don't have a disparity study. The studies have been beautiful. They've been excellent. They've been well-written, but nobody did anything with them. And so it is just, it makes no sense to me that we would invest one penny into a, a, uh,
 a disparity study where we already know what it takes to actually hire women and minority firms. We have to actually know them. We have to reach out to them. We have to build relationships with them. And so when Lester comes in front of city council and says,
 primary contractors had five contracts and he still doesn't know any people of color contractors, that's on us. That's not on that prime contractor. We can do so much better without a disparity study. I, um,
 if we had the political will to do it. I just think we are in a place where we are used to doing contracts a certain way, and we have not gotten out of our own way. So again, yes, we need to change. Yes, we will change based on the auditor's findings. But the disparity study is not a barrier to us actually doing better at contracting with minorities and women. Happy to hear what Lester has to say if he needs to.
 Yes, I would like to hear from Lester, please. Lester, you on? And then Commissioner Udalli after Lester. Yeah, I am on. So the $200,000 that we were asking to carry over actually isn't enough to fund a disparity study. But we have that work session coming up that we've all committed to as a result of the audit.
 And we know that we're gonna be exploring new ideas with a lot of stakeholders that include both city staff and external community-based organizations and contractor advocacy groups. And we were asking for that 200 to be carried over to have resources to be able to accompany proposals to council in that work session for new ideas. So that's what the $200,000 was for at this point.
 We have some ideas, but those aren't vetted with the community, those aren't vetted with your staff or vetted with the Bureau staff. So that's what the carryover was for. It wasn't actually, it's not enough to fund a full disparity study. Very good, and Commissioner Udaili? Thanks, Mayor. I just wanted to elaborate a little bit on what I said earlier.
 The problem with the disparity study is the method, no, I'm getting an echo, sorry. The methodology, how the methodology works, it's a disparity, it relies on statistical analysis of available firms, and if that is the starting point, it is not going to help us meet our equity goals. It may in fact deliver a lower level of equity
 aspirational goal for utilization rates. And it's just the wrong place to start. Very good. And Commissioner Hardesty, is your hand up or is that just residual? Oh, it's residual, sorry. All right. Any further questions about any of these before we go through them one at a time to vote on them?
 Seeing none, and I'll go through these relatively quickly. And again, if anybody needs to stop or slow down, just raise your hand or shout. So at this point, we will vote on Mayor Wheeler Amendment Number One. This is the motion allocate 231,000 in one time general fund resources and special appropriations is approved for carryover in the spring supplemental budget. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll.
 HARDESTY? Aye. UDAILY? Aye. FRITZ? Aye. WHEELER? Aye. The amendment is adopted. Amendment 2 motioned to allocate 146,000 one-time resources in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability General Fund that were approved as carryover in the spring supplemental budget. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. HARDESTY? Aye. UDAILY? Aye. FRITZ? Aye. VICE CHAIRMAN MILLER? Aye. VICE CHAIRMAN MILLER? Aye. VICE CHAIRMAN MILLER? Aye. VICE CHAIRMAN MILLER? Aye. VICE CHAIRMAN MILLER? Aye. VICE CHAIRMAN MILLER? Aye. VICE CHAIRMAN MILL
 Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendments adopted. Amendment 3, motion to allocate 83,000 in one-time resources in Portland Parks and Recreation General Fund that were approved for carryover in the spring supplemental budget. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Newdailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Budget.
 I'm getting ahead of myself. The amendment is adopted. Amendment four, a motion to allocate 300,000 in one-time general fund resources in the city attorney's office in support of an approved carryover for the spring supplemental budget. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Artestee, Udallie. Aye. Fritz.
 Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's approved. Five, motion to allocate resources for the council ratified labor contract of the Portland Police Commanding Officers Association. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is approved. Number six.
 Motion to amend attachment D, an out-of-budget note regarding the Portland Police Specialty Units as we described. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll on amendment 6. Hardesty? Aye. Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. 7 was withdrawn. I don't think it requires a vote, does it, legal counsel?
 uh the withdrawal does not no i'm sorry um because this is actually you are amending what is currently in the budget there is enough uh amendment seven which effectively withdraws the motion it's a motion to amend attachment d to withdraw the budget note entitled civic life slash police space moves plan carla please call the role artisty
 Just a clarification, I'm voting aye to remove it from the budget. Is that accurate? That is accurate. Lee Bailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Amendment eight, motion to transfer $118,911 in ongoing resources from the Portland Parks and Recreation Tree Mitigation Trust Fund to the Parks General Fund operating budget for a botanic specialist two.
 Any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Udaily? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Taylor? Aye. The amendment's adopted, Amendment 9, motion to allocate 72,000 in general fund resources to prosper Portland for the Portland Film Office. Any further discussion? Don't see any. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaily? Aye. Fritz?
 I'm very happy that this money was found in really quick time. I know Commissioner Fish would be really pleased to have it back too. Aye. Wheeler. Ditto. Aye. The amendments adopted. Commissioner Fritz, one motion to allocate $123,985 in general fund resources to the Office of Equity and Human Rights for implementation of the resolution aligning COVID-19 response with the city's climate equity goals. Any further discussion? No.
 Seeing none, Carla please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaily? Aye. Fritz?
 This is a limited term position for an analyst one to assist with the reporting requirement in the resolution that we passed this morning. I very much appreciate that my colleagues acknowledge that the office is already doing more than is reasonable to ask for so few people and that this money has been allocated.
 The amendment is adopted. Amendment two, motion to allocate $29,540 in general fund resources to the Office of Equity and Human Rights for critical administrative capacity and support. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 This is ongoing funding for the deputy director position held by Dr. Kofi D'Sou, which is needed to help Dr. Smith with all the responsibilities that she's got internally within the Bureau, as well as citywide. Commissioner, I think you're talking on the wrong issue. No, that's right. This is Fritz number two. Oh, I'm very sorry. My apologies. No worries.
 I was in midstream. Where did I get to? Yeah, it was me, not you. Thank you. So the deputy director position, which Dr. Desue has been very patient in making sure that we get this very small amount of funding for that position, similarly for administrative position and for technical assistance from the Housing Bureau with the budget. And so these are
 small asks as I mentioned earlier, we were not able to get funding for civil rights position or other things that are needed to expand, but this is a good start and I thank you colleagues, aye. Taylor. I vote aye. The amendments adopted. Commissioner Udailese, amendment number one, motion allocate $547,000 in recreational cannabis tax fund resources to the Office of Community and Civic Life as described in the further discussion.
 Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Good daily. Well, I am very proud of the work that Civic Life's Cannabis Foundation
 program has done and especially the social equity grants. I fought to establish this program and to redirect funding because we're not doing nearly enough to fulfill the restorative justice component of the cannabis tax ballot measure. We're still working to improve the grant process, but the awardees dedicated these funds to worthwhile efforts such as records expungement,
 rental assistance and job training. I find it unacceptable that I have to fight. I've had to fight for these dollars every year when other bureaus have ongoing allocations. I understand that this $547,000 allocation will now be an ongoing allocation for Civic Life and I want to thank the mayor for that.
 Without guaranteed funding or nearly enough to respond to award to a meaningful number of applicants, Civic Life has not been able to fund this work in a way that increases community capacity. Restorative justice is slow, deliberate work, and it doesn't happen in a year or two or even three.
 Without resources to offer multi-year grants, Civic Life has had to hold grantees to expungement, job retention, housing placement outcomes that take time to do well. So recipients don't have the runway to get projects off the ground before it's time to reapply and report on outcomes. This work should not be funded at less than $1 million ongoing. That would allow us to...
 do the more meaningful work that we're aiming to do.
 And while I'm grateful for this ongoing allocation, it's still the smallest investment in what I think is the most important aspect of the work that we do with these dollars. So I'm committed to continuing to work in order to find that $1 million for social equity grants and to reevaluating underperforming allocations in order to do so. I vote aye. Ms. Fritz. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Amendment two, motion to allocate one-time general fund resources to special appropriations for universal defense. Is described. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye.
 I want to thank my colleagues for their support of this ask. Our community partners had asked for $750,000 initially. This $250 that we found will provide the bare minimum they need to continue providing these crucial services. I think you heard in a session recently that
 over 500 Portland residents have received assistance through this program and that means 500 people who weren't torn from their families,
 who didn't lose their jobs, who were not put into dangerous detention centers, and were not sent back to countries where their lives may be in peril. It was a bright spot to hear about some of those outcomes for me at a time where we're not hearing a lot of good news. So they've done amazing work, and I'm very happy to vote aye. Is she next, Mayor?
 It's Fritz. I didn't get called. Oh, sorry about that. Wheeler. I vote aye. The amendment is adopted. Amendment three motion to allocate 147,000 in ongoing general fund resources to fund the regional arts and culture center special appropriation. As described, any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty.
 As vital as I know that the arts are to our community, I cannot vote to support this additional allocation. I am gonna ask, and I know that it's devastating that I'm not.
 But what I know is that through the work that we're doing with Classical Portland, we are working to be able to put money into the hands of musicians, lighting people, all the folks who are actually the individuals that make up parts of our artists and music community. And so it is unfortunate that based on the limited resources we have, I will be no on this.
 You, Daley? Well, I'm clearly disappointed that my colleagues could not find their way to supporting this very small ask that would support RAC in continuing their work around capacity building with culturally specific arts organizations. It's going to really undermine their equity work, which Madison has been a champion of and has advanced
 in really impressive ways in their short tenure as director of RAC. That being said, I wanna assure Madison and RAC and our arts community that I'm not gonna stop fighting for you, we need a lot more than $147,000 and I am committed to helping you secure funding come hell or high water. I vote aye. Fritz.
 It's hard when there's so many needs in the community and we know that the venues themselves are also needing some assistance to be able to provide the places where people can perform. And yeah, there's no good choices in this pandemic with the budget so tight. And that means that everybody has to take their trimming and therefore I vote no. Wheeler.
 This is a relatively small ask and it would be coming out of the ongoing general fund contingency. I thought it was a reasonable adjustment. I vote aye. That said, the motion does not pass. Next item is Commissioner Hardesty's Amendment 1, motion to allocate resources for council ratified labor contract with the Portland Firefighters Association. Any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll.
 Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted. Amendment 2, motion to allocate $50,000 in ongoing general fund resources to support a council emergency security fund. Any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for identifying this as a challenge. I'm very happy that my successor will be the first Latinx woman member of the council. In fact, the first Latinx member of the council. And we know that there are...
 increasing hate crimes, bias crimes, especially in the pandemic. And so this is very necessary, and I appreciate that it's ongoing funds because, unfortunately, the roots of racism and hate run deep in this community, and they're not going away anytime soon, unfortunately. Thank you for your attention to this, Commissioner Hardesty. Aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The amendment is adopted.
 And number three is a little different. This is first the roll call to amend amendment three. Any further discussion on the amendment to amend amendment three? Seeing none, please call the roll. Aye. Trustee? Aye. Udailey? Aye.
 Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Amendment 3 is now amended to the main motion. Amendment 3 is amended. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye.
 Well, I've been advocating for a central accommodations fund since I got to City Hall. We have an obligation to provide accommodations, whether it is language supports or access for those with disabilities. That support should be readily available and consistent across every bureau.
 and hopefully now it will begin to be. I wanna thank Hannah Halloway and Margo Wieck who raised this concern early on in the crisis with Eileen Park in the Mayor's office. And I strongly support this allocation and hope we can devote more to it in the future. I vote aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Wheeler. Yeah, this is great. I vote aye. Amendment three is adopted as amended. Number four, motion to allocate $633,244 in support of the Portland Street Response Pilot Program. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Hardesty. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. Amendment four is adopted. Amendment number five, a motion to reduce one-time general fund resources approved in the fiscal year 19-20 spring supplemental budget in the Office of Management and Finance Procurement Services for a procurement disparity study. Any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, please call the roll. Hardesty. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz.
 It's really troubling that we make a decision and, you know, not even a month later it's proposed that we change that decision. We had a good discussion with Leslie Spittler in council session. He just clarified that the money isn't even for a disparity study. It's for doing the work to look at how can we improve and that we have a work session scheduled. So until we've had that work session and until we,
 and have a way forward, it seems prudent to keep that money in procurement services line item. They won't be able to spend it unless they come until after the work session anyway. So I believe that we should stick with what we did a couple of weeks ago, no. Wheeler. No, the amendment fails.
 Amendment 6, a motion to amend Attachment D to add the following budget notes regarding identifying a medically sound alternative to sobering services. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Artisty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. This is the one that you're not supported by, right, Mayor? That's correct.
 Yeah, I appreciate the intent, but as I've said, I think I've heard from the mayor that discussions are happening to address this. I do appreciate Commissioner Hardesty finding that line item, but I don't think this budget note is the right way to go about it at this time, no.
 Wheeler. No, the motion fails. Item seven, amendment seven motion to reduce the general fund ongoing discretionary resources in the Portland Police Bureau that are currently allocated for sobering services and realigning the resources to support the new sobering program to be requested in the fall supplemental budget process. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty.
 You, Ailey? Aye. Prince? So I'm going to support this because the note says to support a new sobering program to be requested in the full budget. It doesn't say where that program would be. So it's possible that these funds could be transferred to the county if it gets determined that they are the best location to fund this medical service. Aye. Wheeler? Aye.
 All right, the amendment's adopted. Amendment eight, which I think is our last one for now. A motion to amend attachment D, specifically the budget note titled Public Safety Governance and Integrated Budgets. This motion will replace the current budget note, which identifies a full timeline for implementation within October 1st, 2020 start date as discussed. Any further discussion on this item? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Curtis T. Aye. Uday Lee. Aye. Ritz.
 Aye. Wheeler. I vote aye, the amendment is adopted. And now if all the folks could bear with me, I wanna make clear that the next step is to vote to approve changes to the budget as per the memo and the related adjustments and attachments B, C and D of the memo is amended. Is that correct?
 So Mayor, we actually do need a motion and a second. And there's some language that I believe was sent to you from Matt. Oh, here it is. Okay, check this out. Quote, next we need to vote on a package of amendments.
 Do I hear a motion to, when are they gonna make a TV show out of this, seriously? Okay, next we need to vote on a package of amendments. Do I hear a motion to approve the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the memo as amended by the individual floor amendments to attachments B, C, and D of the memo? No move. Do I hear a second? Second. Second. Is there any further, and Commissioner,
 the hardest he moved commissioner for it. Second, is there any further discussion? Seeing none.
 No, I just have a quick question. There's another vote. I can't find the script in my notes. There's another vote after this. This isn't the speech script. This is the speech vote, right? This is not the speech vote yet. This is the print speech vote. This is only step eight. All right, so. Do let us know when to give our speeches, please. I absolutely will. So this we just vote on the package of amendments. Carla, please call the roll. Curtis D. Aye. Hugh Daly.
 Ms. Ricks? Aye. Wheeler? All right, so the package of amendments has now been approved. Now here's the speech piece. Oh, I didn't vote? After all that, I vote aye. The package of amendments is adopted. So now we are on step nine, the final step.
 to vote to approve the budget as amended. So there needs to be a motion, a second, and then we'll take a vote to approve the budget as amended. Can I get a motion and a second, please? So moved. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Fritz, if that's okay. No, I got it, that's not fair. No, you weren't first, don't even try it. All right. You got a louder voice. So this is where everybody makes a speech if they are so inclined.
 Any further discussion before we take the vote to approve the budget as amended? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? First, I wanna thank the mayor for his proposed budget that it seems like a lifetime ago, but it was really a very short period of time when the mayor's proposed budget was released.
 We are moving into a different era here at the city of Portland. Our post-pandemic city will look a lot different than our pre-pandemic city. I am thrilled to be working with such colleagues who have centered frontline communities and ensuring that we are
 being intentional about prioritizing those communities that have been hardest hit, and those communities that we know will have a hard time recovering. Clearly, this budget and the budgets moving forward, at least in the next three to five years, will all be budgets that will be less, will have less financial resources than the city of Portland has become accustomed to.
 And it matters how we invest the limited resources that we have. It is my hope that this is a beginning of really looking at city services through a lens of do we really need all those office buildings? Do we really need to all go back and operate the way we operated prior due to the pandemic?
 Do we really need to invest in real technology so that the city can telecommute more effectively? Not just us, but also for community members who are suffering from the digital divide. I am proud that what this budget did was several things. One, it held all city employees to the same standard.
 We all will have to make sacrifices to get through this budget cycle and the next one and in the near future. And it made sure that we prioritize the lowest wage workers to ensure that they would suffer the least harm. I am proud of the work the city council did to come to this budget. It was, it should have been a very,
 it should have been a very aggressive, contentious budget cycle. But what I've learned in my year plus at City Hall and my long term here, what I've learned is that if you lead with the values and people understand the values that you are putting forward, you can normally find some medium ground that will address people's concern.
 Is this budget everything I would have hoped for? Of course not, but we are in a pandemic. We are in a state of crisis and we are in an economic crisis. I think we've made some really wise decisions today.
 And I want to personally thank Mayor Wheeler. I just couldn't imagine Mayor Wheeler and I working on policing and other public safety issues as closely as we have over the last year.
 You know, I know my friends and his friends probably freak out to think that we are in such alignment many times around what's the right thing to do as it relates to community safety and public safety and what it looks like and how our community experiences it. And so for me, this budget cycle, even though it was quick, even though
 It's painful, even though all of us are taking cuts. I am so proud of where we ended, because what I know is that where we ended is in a place where our values are really stamped into this budget, and it will be stamped into all the work that we move forward in implementing this budget. I want to thank each of my colleagues. Each office was so critical to where we are
 And I think this is an opportunity to thank the mayor and my city council colleagues for the incredible leadership that's been shown through this pandemic. I mean, I knew we had strong leadership at the city of Portland. I knew we had strong directors that were visionary and that were willing to work an enormous number of hours to get the job done.
 But what this pandemic showed me is that at the top, at every level at the city of Portland, we have people who lead with their heart and lead with their values. And I think this budget is the first step in the process of making sure as we start the rebuilding process that we don't lose those values. We don't lose that sense of why we're doing this work.
 And we don't lose the sense of we're doing it for the people who have never had a voice in this process. I am very happy to vote aye. Eudaly? Well, I'm pleased to have made some progress in this year's budget. We've been able to get some wins for equitable use of the cannabis fund.
 and universal representation. I'm obviously very disappointed in our failure to partially restore the cut to RAC, which to be clear cuts their capacity building grants to culturally specific organizations. And as a city, we like to talk a lot about equity. And I personally believe that
 we should put our money where our mouth is.
 I am gonna be looking to my colleagues for commitments in the future to address the needs of the arts community. I don't feel like the council is grasping the uniquely vulnerable position artists, arts organizations and arts venues are in. And the fact that so little of the relief thus far is available or to or appropriate to them.
 So I want to thank the mayor for supporting that, although the motion failed. All our systemic failures are on display, and I have been really impressed how everyone has been hustling to try to address the glaring needs in our community. And I would assert that that is how we should function during normal times as well, because as we know,
 There is always a crisis for people in our community who are unhoused, who are being underserved, who are being discriminated against in our community. So this is a painful but necessary exercise in how to prioritize the most vulnerable and least well-served people in our community.
 I want to thank my office staff, especially my policy team, Marsha Rumpel, Jamie Duhamel, Hannah Howell and Andres Oswell, who has taught me how to roll my R's. And I want to thank my directors, Suk-Ri and Yvonne.
 Chris from PBOT, they've worked really hard and made some real sacrifices in our budgets to align with the city's priorities. I also want to thank RAC Director Madison Cario for being here today. And finally, I want to thank Jessica Kennard and her team at the budget office. Every year,
 of the budget cycle has been uniquely challenging. We were set up for what seemed to me like the easiest one we've had in the four years that I've been here and surprise, this happened. So thank you so much. Your input has been invaluable and I really appreciate your hard work. I vote aye. Fritz.
 Well, this is my final budget, and it's a once-in-a-lifetime budget. There's nothing like it in my 12 years. Nothing is the same as it ever was. And we had high hopes when we started this budget with no cuts and the ability to fund some council priorities, and the coronavirus has changed everything. But we've asked ourselves, how did we get here? And we, this morning, reflected on the inequities in our community and brought
 brought the resiliency resolution and the way out of it, the principles, at the same time as we're affirming the budget. I do appreciate that the Council approved a modest request for the Office of Equity, and I trust you to keep going on that afterwards, after I'm gone.
 there's so many things to say the the columbia pool um is currently closed but when it's safe to reopen paul's columbia pool will be funded for another year which is what the mayor committed to do and may we lie your leadership in this pandemic and in this budget has been absolutely outstanding that you have um really um taken the reins and at the same time been uh
 I think this most collaborative budget that I've been involved in under your administration. So that's really good to see that it's bringing out the best in all of us. Thank you, Commissioners Eudalia and Hardesty for working collaboratively to get the consensus to this yes vote. Particularly recognize Christian Dennis and Sonia Szymanski and the mayor's entire team. Of course, Jessica Gennard in her entire team.
 entire team absolutely phenomenal and a very unique circumstances I think the labour unions who are working with the council recognising the difficult decisions that have to be made and really how everybody has been
 just aware that we need to put the community first we need to put our city family and their jobs as a high priority keeping health insurance going all of the things that we care about and finally thank you to my team and every one of them who has been involved in this budget yesenia carillo
 Claire Adamsick, Astrid DeGoy, and Tim Crail. And Tim has been my budget advisor for 12 years now. And it's actually literally true that I could not have done it without you. Hi. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 Well I want to start by acknowledging Commissioner Fritz as she said this is her final budget. She's been through many of these and uh Commissioner Fritz I'm sorry that this is your last budget because your input, your guidance, your mentorship on all these budgets has been very very helpful to me over the last four years. This is my fourth budget
 I don't believe it's my last budget, but this was definitely an interesting one. We were able to protect core services as all of the commissioners have noted. It was an important value for us to retain frontline services and to retain the employees as much as possible who provide those services. And we did that through a commitment to shared sacrifice. And I want to acknowledge that.
 We also did take this as an opportunity to move away from business as usual and make some real changes and to innovate and improve the way we do business. And we, of course, elevated our equity and our climate goals. And collectively, we were determined not to let those goals wither during this crisis. But in fact, we chose the opposite strategy, which was to elevate those goals.
 I also just want to acknowledge that much of this work happened with collaboration from our regional partners. The City of Portland's budget is never in a vacuum. It has an impact on what happens at the county. It has an impact on what happens at the metropolitan level, the metro level. And I want to appreciate the thoughtfulness for that kind of collaborative effort. We support it.
 the services for those who are most vulnerable, including those who are currently living on our streets. We protected the ability of small businesses to get through this crisis. And we put a special emphasis on businesses owned by people of color and women.
 We protected safety net services for vulnerable populations. And as Commissioner Fritz just mentioned, we were determined not to let our community parks wither. And in fact, we have funded strategies to build a bridge to a sustainable future for those parks assets.
 There's obviously a lot more work to be done. We'll continue to work with our labor leadership to find ways where we can partner to find savings without additional layoffs. And of course, there's more work to be done in the fall. So we haven't closed the entire gap, but we've done the best we can with the information we have as of today. But we know that the picture will become clearer in the coming months as we get updated economic information. This fall, when we
 have the full impact of this crisis, clarity on the full impact of the financial crisis will take whatever additional steps are necessary in order to balance the budget.
 Between now and then, of course, the bureaus have been directed to work to identify the most thoughtful approach to addressing those potential budget shortfalls. I also want to thank Jessica Kennard and the entire City Budget Office. I want to thank my colleagues.
 on the city council, their chiefs of staff and their teams, almost everybody in every office had some hand in the crafting of this budget. This is something that we should all be collectively proud of. We all collaborated on it. We all worked together on it.
 And I really liked that, the team approach that we used to put this together. In my own office, I wanna particularly thank Kristen and Sonia. And with that, I'm very proud to vote aye on this budget. And with that, the budget is approved as amended.
 And since Commissioner Fritz, this was your last budget, I'll say and now for something completely different. We're not quite done yet.
 I need to make sure that we approve tax levies as required under state law. So the city shall levy its full permanent rate of $4.5770 per $1,000 of assessed value and $28,465,679 for the payment of voter approved general obligation bond principal and interest
 and $182,346,015 for the obligations for the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund. And,
 $.4026 per $1,000 of assessed value for the children's levy. Furthermore, the city shall levy the amounts listed in attachment E for urban renewal collections. So I'll entertain a motion and a second to approve the tax levies. I'll move. Second. Commissioner Hardesty moves, Commissioner Fritz seconds. Is there any further discussion regarding the tax levies?
 Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye. New Daily? Aye. Fritz? We know that taxes pay for services, and we know that many people are going to find it very difficult to pay their taxes during the pandemic and after. So I always make a point of thanking the taxpayers of Portland for their...
 contributions to this budget which we then try to spend their money as wisely as possible. Aye. Wieler. Aye. The tax levies are approved and with that, Director Kennard, can you tell us a little bit about the next steps?
 Absolutely, Mayor. So we are almost there, you guys. Thank you so much for your patience and for anybody that is watching at home for you as well. The budget has now been approved by the Council. The approved budget will be sent to the Tax Supervising and Conservation Commission for review. The TSCC has 20 days to review the budget. TSCC will then conduct a hearing on the City's approved budget on Tuesday, June 9th at 9.30 in the morning. This will be a virtual meeting and conducted through the Council Clerk's process for hosting virtual work sessions.
 The final budget adoption is set for Wednesday, June 10th at 2 p.m. Public testimony can be received at next Wednesday's, I'm sorry, at the June 9th TSCC hearing and at the June 10th budget adoption hearing.
 Very good. Then unless there's any further questions or business, Commissioner Hardesty, you look like you have something. Commissioner Hardesty Yes, Mayor. Thank you. I was woefully inadequate in my remarks and I forgot to thank some really key people. And so if I may, I'd like to thank Kristen Johnson, who's my budget analyst in my office, Carly Edwards, my chief of staff, Doug Bradley.
 I want to thank Sonia from your office and Kristen, who was just incredible to work with during this budget process. I don't normally thank people, and so I always forget to thank people when it's absolutely critical, and I certainly want to take the moment to thank Jessica Kennard and her staff
 You know, I got to tell you, I didn't know budgets were this easy and they're only easy because of the expertise of Jessica Cunard and her staff and how easy they make it look. I know that this is not an easy budget, but I feel like an expert on this budget because of the support that my office receives from the budget office. So I just want to thanks all around. I just think that this was a very...
 collaborative budget process. And thank you, Mayor, for giving me a chance to say thank you. I would have not been able to live with myself leaving this program and not having said thank you to all the others who helped make today's budget possible. Thank you.
 Well, Commissioner Hardesty, as you know, this is the stock and trade of the flower business. So there's always a chance to make it up later. So with that colleagues, this meeting of the City of Portland Budget Committee is now adjourned. Thank you all. Yeah, the title of it. Yeah, it was once in a lifetime. Yeah. All right. Well, we're back to session, everybody. Carla, did we get open signal back? I see us production.
 Yeah, let me check here. All right, I think they're on. I just want to make sure. They're probably not very happy with me. I was trying to catch you, Mayor. I was like, but, but, but, prosper, prosper. And you were gone.
 Okay, I'm told they're back. So you'll remember at the end of season one, the cliffhanger was I said, I have a feeling this won't be my last budget. So here we are, episode one, season two taking up with my next budget. So I'm now convening the Prosper Portland Budget Committee for the purpose of approving the fiscal year 2021 budget. The Prosper Portland Budget Committee resumed.
 received the proposed budget and received testimony back on May 13th. The Budget Committee received the approved budget change memo and exhibit a to resolution 7372 back on May 15th. And I now request that Carla called the roll for the FOSPR Portland Budget Committee. Sorry, I was checking my. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here.
 Here.
 The Budget Committee received the revised approved budget change memo and a revised exhibit A to resolution 7372 on May 19th that included adjustments to housing appropriations necessary to match changes to the City of Portland approved budget. And before I ask for a motion to accept the revised change memo and exhibit A to resolution 7372, I have a question
 for our smart budget people. We adopted an amendment in the approved budget that was referenced to the film office, and I'm wondering how we include that amendment in the Prosper Portland budget. And so before we go too far, can I just make sure somebody stops us at the appropriate moment and says we need to enter something into the record here?
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. Tony Barnes with Prosper Portland. Yes, there's a opportunity after the revised Exhibit A and resolution to enter in additional amendments. And so any amendments related to that.
 City's approval would want to be entered at that point and voted on, and then it would include the film office and the change in the cannabis allocation too. Okay, thank you. I appreciate that, Tony. So at this point, then I'll ask for a motion to accept the revised change memo in Exhibit A to Resolution 7372. So moved.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Udalli. And now we have to vote on that motion is my understanding at this point. Tony is shaking his head yes. Any further discussion? Carla call the roll please. Hardesty? Aye. Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Aye. The motion carries. I'm now calling for individual amendments to the memo from commissioners. In each case, we'll need to specifically state the amount and purpose. And I believe this is where we would have the opportunity to add the film office amendment. I propose a
 My motion would be to increase general fund appropriations to fund the Portland Film Office as follows. To amend the Prosper Portland General Fund budget as shown in exhibit A, to increase economic development appropriations by $72,000. This amendment is necessary to reflect general fund resources being added for the Portland Film Office during approval of the City of Portland budget. Can I get a second?
 Second. We have a second from Commissioner Hardesty. I can return that laptop. No, no, I absolutely got that one. No, you did not. You just aren't as fast as I am.
 No, seriously, I was. Okay, Commissioner Hardesty is the last budget. It's the last budget. It's her last budget, give it to her. Commissioner Fritz seconds it. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, I appreciate that. And there was one more Tony, is that correct?
 That's correct. It would be a reduction to the general fund for economic development appropriations by the $547,000 in cannabis tax resources related to the prior approval. Okay. Can somebody move and second that? So moved. Where are you, Commissioner Fritz? Commissioner Fritz? You know, I...
 I did second. You might want to watch where it lights up on the Zoom because I think maybe my being connected by telephone is doing some kind of different delays than doing it over the internet. It does. It does. Yeah, okay, good. So Commissioner Hardesty moved that. Commissioner Fritz seconded that. If that's okay with you, Commissioner Fritz? Yes, that's fine. Thank you. Excellent. Very good. Let's see. Is there any further...
 discussion on these amendments before we go to public testimony. Tony, are there any other amendments that you believe we should have added that we have forgotten at this point? No, Mayor. Very good. Carla, is there any public testimony? No one registered for this item, Mayor.
 Very good. I am now calling to entertain a motion to vote to approve the budget adjustments in exhibit A of the resolution 7372 as amended. Can I get a motion and a second? So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Fritz. We will now approve the budget as amended. Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty? Aye.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? Commissioner Hardesty, I appreciate you letting me have the second on the film office amendment. As I said, Commissioner Fish was particularly fond of it, and I also have learned over the course of time how important it is to our economy. So thank you, Mayor, for making sure that that got funded. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. So the budget is approved as amended for Prosper Portland.
 The meeting of the Prosper Portland Budget Committee is now adjourned. Before I hang up, is there anything else we're supposed to do? That concludes it. Our next steps are to submit the approved budget to the Tax Supervising Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on Wednesday, June 10th at 3pm with the Prosper Board of Commissioners. All right, good. And is there any other business for the good of the order? Are we really truly done?
 It looks like we're really truly done. So I'm going to hang up now unless somebody stops me and says there's more to do. All right. Thank you, everybody. Great work. Thank you. We'll see you later.