Okay, good afternoon everyone and welcome to the May 26th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish. Here. Fossman. Novick. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome everyone. Glad you're here. This is a good day. So let's take up the first of these good items, meaning 565. 565. Establish a new Portlanders Policy Commission. 565.
 commissioner fritz thank you mayor harrells and thank you to both my colleagues for being here commissioner novick is on vacation and commissioner saltzman filed an absence
 So we are here and we have three, so we can proceed to inaugurate this new commission. And I'm very grateful to everybody who's been a part of this work over many years now. It's been since 2011 when we established the Office of Equity and Human Rights and first started the New Portland Policy Council. It's been a lot of great work done. That council, of course, was formed to advise the Office of Equity and Human Rights and has done some wonderful work in that regard.
 Then Mayor Hales, having been in charge of both the Office of Equity and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, moved the New Portlanders Council into Neighborhood Involvement, which is appropriate, showing the level of engagement that we're now moving not only to advising the city but also to coordinating community engagement within the community, the many communities of Portland.
 So as that work has developed, the council has been asking next steps. What's the logical progression? And we, I and the mayor, agrees that the next step is to form a formal commission. Thank you.
 We hear from many people at budget hearings that it's really important to listen to all Portlanders, and I appreciate every one of you who's participated in any of our city hearings. We've had some wonderful conversations and a lot of participation on boards and commissions. And this, again, also builds on the diversity and civic leadership program that's been going in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement for many years.
 and i need to just stop right at the beginning and acknowledge mayor tom potter who's joined us today and all of his work while he was mayor which really is the foundation for what the city we are today and the inclusion that we see today so thank you mayor potter for joining us and first lady former first lady karen hansen thank you um so the new portland policy council is has a strategic plan developed in 2014
 which calls for a permanent citywide immigrant and refugee commission. And I support this request, of course. I myself am an immigrant. I've been in Portland for 30 years now in the United States since 1979. Estimates vary between one in five and one in eight Portlanders were born in another country. I don't like to use the word foreign. You know, it sounds like I used to be a...
 A temporary resident alien was the first tax return that I filed as a temporary resident alien. I felt like maybe I'd come from Mars or something, but there I was just working away at my little job. So I'm not an alien and I'm not foreign. I'm someone who was born overseas and now Portland is my home and now Portland is all of our home. And we need to look at how are we going to work together as partners.
 traditional Portlanders as Native Americans who have been here for time immemorial, and now the new folks who come tomorrow, as well as the folks who came like I did 30 years ago or anywhere from birth to now.
 This action signifies the city's ongoing commitment to being inclusive and to recognizing that we are stronger when we all work together and when all voices are heard, and that at our peril should we leave people out, because that's not going to work. It hasn't worked in the past, and now is the time to change. So with that, I'd like to invite up Linda Castillo and Lee Pocha, the current co-chairs of the New Portland Policy Council, and they will...
 guide the process from then on. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Council Commissioners and the esteemed community that we have with us. My name is Linda Castillo, and I work at Latino Network. And I just want to also share that recently I was confirmed as a commissioner on the Commission of Hispanic Affairs, which is really exciting. But I'm really honored here to serve as co-chair along with Mr. Lee Pocha and our New Portlander policy partners. Thank you.
 Together from the Newport Leaders Council, we've been working diligently to foster partnerships with the city bureaus and advise on integration policy and provide civic engagement practice and technical assistance to the various bureaus while providing learning and healing and mutual engagement in community building opportunities. Thank you.
 So I'm delighted today that we'll share more of what we've learned about our diverse and rich immigrant and refugee communities and the work with the city bureaus. So I'm happy to be a part of that, to share that with you today. To support the rationale for transitioning our advisory body from council to a citywide policy commission. In this process, we have been appreciative of your questions and your recommendations and the support shown by you and your very talented staff.
 And so now I'll pass the baton, so to speak, to Mr. Lee to share his thoughts with us and walk us through today's agenda. Thank you, Linda. First, let me thank Commissioner Fritz for your great leadership and as well as Mayor Hales and our city board of commissioners.
 for allowing your staff to work with the new portlander policy council for the last uh you know couple of years at least you know right after our strategic plan which commissioner fritz alluded to and um you know without without your staff support um you know we would not get to this point and so
 I just wanted to really express our gratitude and appreciation for those staff that have been working hard to help us to really craft the ordinance language and looking into creating this Immigrants and Refugees or the new Portland Policy Commission.
 Second, I'd like to also thank you for giving some level of funding to work with the council to further the study of the Coalition of Community of Color Research.
 and indeed for Portland State and Dr. Ann Curry-Stevens to further our research study on the immigrants or refugee community when it comes to challenging the issue facing these newcomers. And so with that, I thank you. The ideas of creating a commission program.
 has been a collective desire of all immigrants and refugee community, including API, Latino, Africans and Slavic, and the great leadership from our city bureau as well. By design, it would be very inclusive for
 for our community to come together. And the other piece is that this structure will truly enable our immigrants and refugee community leaders to exercise democracy and to promote proactive action-driven responses rather than continuing to be reactive
 This commission will indeed be entering to a very critical strategic idea that the council has, and including our community, has come together to really say that in order for us to continue to provide something successful representing our city and also our community, having a structure like a commission would truly enhance
 that vehicle. And so this commission will mutually benefit our city and the growing immigrants and refugee community
 And so the beneficial part is that I think we love our city, right? This is our city, even though we're newcomers, but it is our city. We need to be able to also help our city to do a better job in responding to the needs and to the critical needs.
 challenges that are facing our immigrants and refugee community. The mutual benefit is also that to the community because we can have such a vehicle that would represent and would speak for the needs and be the voice and be the
 vehicle that would be both the city can actually voice their concern, they can help us to work together to troubleshoot and problem-solve issues that are facing our newcomer community, or vice versa. And so by doing so, this is going to be a very critical structure and will provide that solid...
 structure for both the city and our community going forward. The one piece that we do not want to see repeated again in the future is that we used to personally have worked and worked with this community for the last 30 years, and so I have seen a
 many great ideas, starting from Mayor High Evansy all the way to how many mayor now, Mayor Hill. I think many of you have great ideas, but a lot of time, those of us who are citizens, we saw those great ideas gone with you when you're done with your term. And you don't want to see that happen again. So by creating such a structure, you will make sure that those great ideas and great
 structure will continue on in serving the city and the community. So with that, I just wanted to really urge you to support the commissions and your strong considerations in approving these commissions so that we can look at it as a critical structure that would benefit the city and our community more.
 as a whole. So thank you very much. At this point in time, I'd like to just pass on to Alberto to continue to facilitate our discussion. So Alberto, thank you. Thank you both. Good afternoon, Alberto. How are you? Mayor, I'm well, thank you. Good afternoon. Mayor, Commissioners, it's lovely to be here with you. Thank you for receiving this
 beautiful group of community members i couldn't think of a better group of folks to be in community with so thank you for receiving us my name is alberto moreno i am the chair for the commission on hispanic affairs and uh just as pleased as miss castillo is to be joining my commission i am delighted to have her join the commission on hispanic affairs
 My role here is simple. I am going to try to bring some grace to this process and bring folks up here who have expertise, who have tremendous passion, and care about this issue deeply. And so that's the simplicity of my role here today.
 We're going to walk through this agenda, so we appreciate your time and we appreciate you being part of this conversation. We're going to ask Professor Ann Curry-Stevens to come up, and she's going to provide some context for us. She's going to review with you the New Portlander Study, an executive summary and key points. Those are included in your packet, by the way.
 and then she'll be followed by some additional guests who will speak to other pieces of this agenda. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Alberto. Welcome, Dr. Stephens. Thank you very much, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm delighted to be here today and to share with you an early glimpse at a major report that we have coming out. It's in...
 It's similar in terms of its scope to the other unsettling profile series we've done in the past, but what's new about it is it's much more asset-based. It is much more of a...
 functional affirmation, both by way of the evidence as well as by way of the tenor of the report, to give us a glimpse into the lives of our various newcomer communities. We anticipate the report will be published in about two weeks. We're at the tail end of review processes.
 And it's covering a range of topics, including, and I want to give attention to two key parts of that report. The first is the myths and myth-busting chapter. There is a very deeply evidence-based rooting of...
 opposition to some of the dominant myths, and we believe it will arm you, it will equip you in a fairly robust way to deal with some of the discourses, some of the myths that are out there about our communities.
 The second is to draw your attention to we had the ability to do five chapters on smaller immigrant and refugee communities, to shed light on their lives, their arrival conditions, the types of challenges they face, the types of assets they bring. And we believe that those will be followed in the coming years with additional glimpses into the lives of other newcomer communities.
 Sometimes it's a little too hard to ask people to read the whole report, and so those pieces we really hope will, for anybody serving those communities, will be an important set of insights. So what I'm going to do is to share with you some of the key findings, a couple of the highlights of various chapters, and then to wrap up with some of the recommendations. So to begin, I'd like to talk about the arrival conditions of our newcomers.
 So newcomers arrive into the U.S. to some degree anticipating the land of milk and honey. Certainly a sense of real optimism and excitement around what this land can offer to them and can offer to their children particularly. And...
 Unfortunately, when we do not tap into the assets that they bring, we don't provide inclusive pathways to,
 there is a deflation of that sense of excitement. And so that early learning of being an untapped resource becomes quite palpable. And then as the years go on, there can be an experience where many in the community experience the same kinds of statistical outcomes, the same kind of data as other communities of color experience.
 and so we end up seeing a diminishment of health and well-being. And so we really have this need for a welcoming environment, and the title of the report is In Need of a Long Welcome. And we really do need that supportive culture and resources to make that welcome real and to manifest all of those assets.
 A couple of brief points on data. This is not like our other reports. I'm just covering a few of the highlights. So the disparities are stark in comparison with the white community. The immigrant and refugee community earns $15,000 less a year on average in households. The poverty rate is two and a half times higher.
 This is a community overarchingly that's employed in low-pay sectors. And the education and attainment level is a high level that haven't finished high school at one-third as opposed to one in 14 with the white, non-Latino community. The next couple of slides I'm going to share with you speak to the, what are the consequences of not tapping these assets? Yes, sir.
 The educational attainment section caught my attention because one of the things we also find is highly educated immigrants that are unable to get into the career tracks that they left as refugees or immigrants. And so we're doing jobs that are out of classification. Absolutely. So how do you square that with the finding on high school diplomas and educational achievement?
 So it's sort of a bipolar distribution. So we have a high level at the high end and a high level at the low end. Okay. And so both are true. It sounds contradictory, but both are true. When we think of the assets and how this community, if those assets were tapped, could benefit the entire region,
 there is huge potential economically. And so I wanted to flag some of these opportunities that show up in the data. Not all the pieces are tied to immigrants and refugees. So to begin, if we did not have racial gaps in income and unemployment, we would have an economic stimulus to the Portland metro region of more than $10 billion a year. This was data worked on by PolicyLink. Thank you.
 If those employment and income levels were at the same levels as whites, this community would be in much stronger economic standing. The other piece is when we put income, if lower-income people were able to earn living wages, that would in turn have a much greater stimulus effect on the economy than putting those money in the hands of the affluent.
 and they actually have a propensity to spend that money that's double what it is if that money is left in the hands of more affluent people. Newcomers typically generate high levels of small business,
 New Data Out talks about 3% in the Portland metro region, slightly slower than the U.S. borne, but it shows a high degree of tenacity to be able to navigate some of the barriers that exist for moving into small business, whether it's loans, whether it's having assets in order to invest. So it's quite an admirable level to be close to that of the U.S. borne average.
 But we also know that these are levels that are nowhere near as high as many major metropolitan cities, which sometimes have more than twice the level of small business creation than we do in Portland. So in terms of looking at exemplars, we might turn our eyes to some of those cities. Okay.
 This is also a community, if they in turn are supported in building small business, are much more likely to hire other workers of color and much more likely to be working in new markets abroad. Minority-owned businesses are two times more likely to be involved in overseas production or exporting activities.
 And then the final piece I wanted to talk about, about a community where there are untapped assets. When that community is untapped by way of assets, they tend to be high unemployment, high poverty levels.
 And those in turn create a drag on the economy. And it's the idea that we then have to spend more in human services, in health services, incarceration, addiction. And there's data out of the US GAO that says that by not dealing with poverty, we actually lose 4% of our economic growth.
 And so these really are hopefully arguments to build a larger set of allies to do this important inclusion work, and we wanted you to have some of these insights and some of the data that's been available.
 The new piece of data I want to share with you is the losing of a foothold that immigrants of color are experiencing in this region. So there are two slides related to this. And the first one, so these are, we are just looking at,
 those that have been in the States for less than 10 years. And we were able to look, go back in a data set about eight years ago. So close to a decade ago, our newcomers of color were able to make $14,500 a year. Today, those newcomers who have been here for about 10 years are only able to make $9,000 a year. Huge loss in economic capacity.
 At the same time, as our white immigrants have actually, we're actually at double the levels eight years ago, they've increased their foothold economically to just shy of $50,000 a year. So there's a really deeply racialized dimension of what it means to be a newcomer economically today. At the same time, this is where this bipolar piece comes, the bipolar,
 I'm not talking about the mental health issue, I'm talking about the distribution of the population, it is a much more highly educated group. So this same group, in terms of immigrants of color, over that same time period, the same population group have significantly improved to now 26% of that group has a bachelor's or higher level of degree compared to only 16%.
 So despite much higher incomes, losing an economic foothold, that's really dramatic. Very quickly, this is a community. I wanted to just show you that this region has 28% folks of color amongst our immigrant community. It is 72% people of color. So our immigrant community is much more likely to be folks of color. Now to some of the encouraging pieces.
 We've tracked in one of the chapters the policy history. To some degree, promises made, promises broken. And we wanted to launch this with a real affirmation of the leadership of Tom Potter and the kinds of imprinting he has done for the newcomer community. His initiatives to build community policing agreements allowed for the emergence of culturally specific law enforcement units.
 done in deep partnership with communities. Communities very much want to see these initiatives rebuilt. He also launched the Diversity in Civic Leadership Program, created the Mayor's Office of Immigrant and Refugee, and opened City Hall to democracy in very practical ways.
 The community generally talks about then a period of relative silence, a real sense of erosion and a diminishment of those initiatives and others until a real surge of enthusiasm today with a lot of affirmation from Mayor Hales' and Commissioner Fritz's contributions. Mayor Hales' the way you have shown up has been deeply regarded, deeply appreciated.
 The resolution to stand in solidarity with the Muslim community as being a legitimate, important part of Portland's fabric is noted and valued very much so. And the support you've shown in moving this work into becoming a commission. And Commissioner Fritz, the accolades are very significant.
 Your focus on the inclusion of immigrants and refugees in equity policy and equity practice is deeply affirmed. And another highlight is the extension of the Parks for New Portlanders program that is going to make a big difference in the lives of many newcomers. Finding six is a bit of a glimpse into these myths and myth-busting.
 In terms of immigrants and refugees being a terrorist threat, this is a group of the most highly vetted newcomers, refugees,
 in the USA or anybody coming to the USA. If you have any negative intentions around behavior in the US, the way to get in is not in claiming refugee status. That being a refugee means you typically go through a two-year validation process of your acceptability into the region. And no refugees and almost no immigrants have been charged with terrorism since 9-11.
 This is a group that is not a drain on public services. While these issues are dealt with more fully in the report, I just pulled out a couple of pieces to share today. Amongst undocumented workers, 50% of them pay payroll taxes and make contributions to services that they can never claim.
 They do not bring down the economy. If undocumented workers were removed from Oregon, we would lose economic activity in the level of $3.4 billion a year, and more than 19,000 jobs would be lost. And this is a group that are job creators as opposed to job takers, with immigrants being much more likely to start a new business than native-born Americans.
 The newcomer assets are palpable in so many ways. This is a group that has deep international experiences, different ways to live, different ways to organize, different ways to think about how to be and how to support each other. Out of necessity, often some of our most insightful innovators come from this community.
 the economic growth potential I've talked about already, and the importance for tapping into that optimism is a real opportunity for us.
 We've done a literature review around settlement and resettlement priorities. And not only, I won't read these through, but not all, they're very basic things such as learning English and getting healthcare supports, but it also draws our attention to the importance of the welcome of the community to include and validate their role.
 in civic life, in neighborhood life, in institutional life. So what we need is a welcoming and inclusive environment alongside supports for adaptation and improved supports for basic human needs.
 We also want to draw your attention to an emerging international practice that's referred to as the Migrant Integration Policy Index. And we may, and this will be a piece to have dialogue with the Commission about,
 establish a standard set of metrics to see how we're doing. And the metrics here include everything from how are kids doing in education to political participation levels, but also in terms of what's the degree of racial harassment, ethnic harassment that exists.
 And so if we could set a baseline and then look at our progress on those, not all of these are readily available, so we may need to think about either replacements or improvements in some of our data collection practices. But we do need a more nuanced, agreed-upon set of metrics where we can gauge progress over time. Shifting to recommendations. The core recommendation, and it's an emotional one,
 is that this community is asking for our political leaders to stand with them when the going gets tough. They want to know that they can rely on your defense of the community, of parts of the community, and want to know that you assert publicly, that you will assert publicly to their legitimacy in the fabric that is Portland.
 So when indignities are loaded onto the community, when wars and turmoil besiege newcomer families from their home community, when community members are spoken of in derogatory ways, the community wants and needs to know that you are reliable in terms of that stance.
 So while there have been these wonderful examples over the past few years, the community would like, the newcomer community very much wants to see that commitment, perhaps in policy and perhaps as well in an assured practice. Yes.
 Number two is to tackle the issue of how immigrants and refugees are seen more broadly. And so there's a vision for an awareness campaign around the assets that these communities bring to Portland. So that might do some myth-busting more publicly, that might emphasize the capacity, that might...
 share leaders commitments that identify the benefits for all. There's a vision of sort of a more public version of the private and commitments that we make at individual levels. We need culturally responsive services.
 So while cultural competency and racial equity are important pieces that are moving and palpably moving in city services, we now need to figure out how to make sure that our services are the highest quality they can be for immigrants and refugees.
 And we know through best practices that those services work in partnership, deep partnership, with those that have experience with our communities of color, with our immigrant and refugee communities. We also need to ensure that organizations are accessible to and inclusive of those being served, and that we're building the evidence base to be sure that these services and resources are working.
 We continue to need workforce supports. You've heard us speak before about recognizing foreign credentials. We're suggesting the creation of a task force to work across jurisdictions in partnership with communities to make sure that international experience and credentials are recognized and validated here. Our survey that we did back when we released the African report, we had –
 close to half of Africans experienced that their foreign credentials were not recognized in employment here. And final substantive slide and then a highlight to finish with is
 is around housing access. The work that's moving on affordable housing is absolutely essential for this community. We also have an idea and suggest another task force, which would be to work with the housing code and the residency laws. There are many communities, many families are large in this community. And the occupancy challenges are a big issue. And we have heard numerous stories of people trying to hide how many children they had.
 and not have them go out and play, because the landlord might become aware of how many kids they have, and that would then risk eviction. So we're wondering and thinking that there are cultural norms embedded in some of the occupancy pieces that might be an important piece to revisit that might have a parallel, more immediate piece around housing affordability and stability that would be valued by our newcomers.
 So the final slide I have for you today is a pretty interesting, very new study that's come out of Amnesty International, which has that, which finds ultimately in the U.S., and this is contrary to the public opinion and how much media attention, anti-immigrant, anti-refugee sentiments exist,
 63% of Americans want their governments to do more to help refugees. I'll draw your attention to the pie chart on the right. A subsequent question was asked of how would you want to welcome, what are the lengths you would go to to welcome refugees into your community? 15% of Americans said they would welcome refugees into their home.
 Further 27% into their neighborhood, 11% into your city, 18% into your country. Only 22% of Americans said we would not welcome them into our country. That's actually a very encouraging note to know that we've got public opinion on our side to be more assertive, inclusive, creative, and strategic. Thank you for your time. Thank you. You know, you're...
 i was just struck by a couple of things in your findings the dichotomy between the educational credentials that a lot of new portlanders bring with them and that fading economic situation and on the other hand a couple of your slides and you mentioned this in passing and so did commissioner fritz
 about the engagement in civic life and political affairs. We keep citing these stories because thanks to the advisory council and to folks like Paulo Catalani, we've been getting folks from immigrant refugee communities involved in the budget process and other ways in city government over the last few years.
 And it's been really striking that they get organized, they come, they make excellent presentations and then they're influential. This cycle in particular, there was a really great grassroots effort about the World Cup soccer program that involved a lot of young people that played in the program, participated
 And we're all telling those stories. I think each of us, when we're out in the community, are telling these stories about how the political power and legitimate participation of all these New Portlanders is actually helping to steer city policy. So what a contrast between the fact you've got these folks getting here, in many cases well-qualified for all kinds of jobs, unemployment below 4%.
 booming economy and thousands more jobs than there were a year ago or a year before that. And yet these two challenges, particularly of credentials and housing, really being forces that are dragging people down when they actually have every reason to be rising.
 You know, they're more influential. They've got, as you said, your survey shows, I bet Portlanders might even exceed that pie chart from what I've seen. You know, I bet it would be hard to find that 22% in Portland. But at any rate, most Portlanders say, this is great. We want these folks to be welcomed here. We're going to go out of our way personally to help do that. You know, and yet, and yet, you know, economically, because of housing prices and because of, in some cases, the credentials problem, people aren't getting that hand on the ladder. Right.
 This is really useful. I think this document is going to be very influential for us as policymakers and for a lot of other people. Thank you. Thank you, Professor and Curry-Stevens, for affirming with tremendous clarity both the dignity and the value of our communities.
 We're going to shift, with your permission, to inviting two additional guests who are going to talk to us about that newcomer experience in Portland. And so it is my pleasure to invite Tok and Dabdi to come up and join me here. And they're going to share, again, their experience in newcomer communities. Tok Sunilay Gillespie is the refugee and resettlement manager. Did I get that right? Yes.
 with Catholic Charities, and Abdi Moussi is the Somali Educational Initiative Manager with Portland Public Schools, I believe. Welcome. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Who's going to start? Ladies first. Okay, Tokyo. Smart man. Thank you so much, Commissioner Fritz, Mayor Hales, and Commissioner Fish. Thank you.
 I apologize. I, all of a sudden, got really intimidated. Don't be. I've never seen you be intimidated, so this is... I'm here. Thank you. And a licensed therapist, so you just let me know. So again, my name is Tak, Sonalegalespie, and I'm...
 have the privilege of being the director of refugee resettlement at Catholic Charities. As we talk today about immigrants and refugees, I'd really like to talk a little bit about the refugee piece, because oftentimes this is a population that is invisible. Every week, refugee resettlement programs are welcoming refugees to the city of Portland.
 I'd like to thank Mayor Hales for being with us at the airport at one of the arrivals. That was really, really important, not only to us, but to the family and to the city. Our news community members are arriving to us from countries, oh my goodness, coming to us from Afghanistan and Myanmar and Iraq, Somalia, and other war-torn countries.
 As refugees, they arrived with all the rights and responsibilities as you and I have, except for the right to vote. Refugees are expected to immediately integrate into our very complex society and bureaucracy. Even having experienced trauma, losing homes, losing families, many of them come wounded. On a national level, with Congress increasing refugee ceiling to 85,000,
 We are being asked to increase our numbers of welcoming refugees, and that's going to impact our city. As a former refugee, I know far too well what happens when a city and a community sees you, believes in you, and takes a chance on you and give you those opportunities. I am the product of a city and a community that has elevated me to be in the position that I'm in now. My story, my journey involved uncertainty, doubt, uncertainty,
 even as I sit here in front of you and get so intimidated because you do have so much power and privilege and access. Sacrifices are what's part of my journey, resilience and triumph. This is a journey that resonates with the faces of many of these people standing behind me and next to me and who continue to lift me up. As you make decisions, whether it's about this ordinance or not, I ask that you remember our faces today.
 and our contributions that we've made to this city. So thank you.
 Well, Tucker, I'm sorry you felt intimidated, but let me tell you that you're not only – you shouldn't be intimidated, but you're actually inspiring because one of my young staff members who's an attorney was talking to you the other day, and he got so inspired by the story about the one-day event with lawyers to help people get through the paperwork that he wanted to volunteer for that. So you inspired him on the spot.
 Thank you for being here today. Could you just tell folks at home how much assistance do refugees get? You said they are required to integrate pretty much from day one. How much assistance, how long is it that the federal government, who provides the assistance? Our wonderful Department of State, in collaboration with Office of Refugee Resettlement. So for the initial Department of State portion, it is 90 days long.
 And then here in Oregon, we provide services to our refugees for a period of eight months. So that's just 90 days from the federal government, and the citizens of Oregon provide up to eight months of housing assistance, and then after that, folks are pretty much on their own?
 Eight months is really what our resettlement offices do here in Oregon. Yeah. Yeah. I think that people think that it's an ongoing for years that people are getting assistance. And when I think about how challenging it was for me to come here, and I have the skin that I'm in, and I speak English, which is very similar to American. Yeah.
 for folks to come here who don't speak any words in english and to then have the challenge of after only eight months expected to be by themselves that is astonishing and i don't think most people recognize that so thank you for the work that you do in helping provide that community and that that helping hand to just get started in this country um may i add to what you said commissioner fritz
 While we as resettlement agencies are doing the work, it is really the community. There's no way, and I'm not just saying this because I'm sitting in City Hall. Refugee resettlement is a public-private partnership. That's why it was designed. And we have to integrate not only our newest community members to the services, but to the people.
 And that's how we know that if the community itself can walk alongside our newest community members, that's where triumph comes from. It's not from the resettlement agencies. So thank you for mentioning that. And if somebody wants to get involved, for instance, Dr. Kerry Stevens showed us that 15% of Americans say that they would welcome somebody into their home. How could they contact you or other services to say, I'd like to help? They could go to our website. And that is? Yes.
 Catholiccharities.org? Catholic Charities Oregon.org, but also our brothers and sisters over at Lutheran Community Services Northwest and Ecumenical Services SOAR. Those are the three resettlement agencies here in Oregon.
 And I hesitated because I didn't think that it was appropriate to mention names. I didn't think we should name drop here. That's okay. We do it all the time. And people are – there are people out there who just want to help, so I appreciate – and you're right. You name dropped three that are some of our most prominent partners. There are others, too. Thank you very much. And if people want to volunteer as attorneys to work at the – or as translators to work at the next one-day amazing – Refugee Adjustment Day? Refugee Adjustment Day. I knew it had a title, but I just –
 I just call it wonderful. And that's, do you remember the date? I guess I will publicly announce it. It's July 30th, Saturday. Okay, so if they're interested in being available July 30th, they can go to that same website and get in touch with you and volunteer, right? Yes. Yes. Thank you.
 It's okay. We get to promote good causes here, so it's all right. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Talk, Mussie? Well, thank you. My name is Mr. Abdi Moussei. Just speaking about what she just said, basically, about the –
 the communities and coming here as immigrant refugees and and the conversation that was going on over here uh it just reminds me in 2001 when the city uh hired basically a uh was it a full-time or part-timer as a refugee liaison person i recall vividly when all of a sudden the city for some reason there was a budget cutting and they decided to let go that person
 That was 2001. And we just heard the information. We felt like, wow, it's high time. We need to go out there as immigrant refugee populations to support and show some kind of solidarity. So that was 2001, basically. Fast forward to 2016. I think this is a huge success.
 where we are right now and what's about to happen in terms of establishing a new commission that is specifically helping this population. I really appreciated the opportunity and also your hard work in making this happen.
 happen. Back to the Somali community in general, basically, where, by the way, I've been working with all kinds of immigrant refugee populations throughout my life for the past 16 years here in Poland, Oregon.
 And in the Somali community, particularly, lately, we have learned that basically there was a report that has been released under the initiative of the community for the first time after the community has been asking a lot about the Portland Public School and the performance of their children. Finally, they have released a set of reported data that pointed out that, for example, only 7% of Somalis were passing the state math test, 7%.
 17% were only passing the state reading test. And on top of that, you had basically the attendance rate, which is about 93% of all Somalis being there. So what you see is students who are motivated being there, but at the same time, the system, unfortunately, somehow failed them. I'm glad to point out that Poland basically...
 public school is working with us. They have realized basically this hasn't been working for the community. It's an immigrant refugee population coming from diverse walks of life and different parts of the world. And they have had a challenge with them and they're working with us really. But this should have been basically news, should have been basically highlighted.
 and this is what basically has galvanized the community and put them together under one roof. And as a result, they formed a Somali task force that is currently working with Portland Public School, other jurisdictions, as well as the state, and we're looking forward to remedy some of those issues. That is only the education piece of it. When you look at the unemployment, it is just the highest.
 because the community, I don't know if you know, according to Oregonians, the Somalis over here in Oregon are estimated between 10,000 to 12,000 of them, and primarily they live in the tri-county areas. Most of them basically are multilingual folks, and they speak multiple languages.
 and they really have that entrepreneurial spirit of starting a new business, but unfortunately the system has been extremely difficult and challenging for them to start that because of lack of opportunity. Institutionalize, raise them if you like. I can give you a case in point a couple of months ago. A family that we were helping wanted to rent a house,
 We called the apartment manager and he said, we have three bedrooms over there ready for you. Come over here and take a look at it. So we asked the family to go over there and visit the house. They went there and they were told the house is not available. I asked them why. They said because of the way I looked, the way I dressed, the way I spoke to them. Probably that's what basically turned them down. And that's why we haven't been able to successfully get the house.
 On another note, we know a lot of members of our community who have tried multiple times to get a loan so they can start businesses. They have not been successful, unfortunately. So we're experiencing a triple constraint, what's called lately in the past
 Prior to 9-11, Somalis only were just blacks and immigrants. But now you have another added layer of challenge, which is basically being a Muslim as well. We just happen to be the largest black Muslim community in Oregon. We're the largest black community after African Americans living right here in Oregon, basically. But so far...
 If you go out somewhere, anywhere, any direction within the city, you won't find basically three or four or five thriving businesses in Somalia, owned businesses basically thriving. It's been extremely challenging, very difficult, and I hope basically the Commission will address some of those challenges.
 and find some kind of solution. It reminds me, I think, a couple of years ago when Sam was over here. He invited us over, community leaders, when he was hosting the other mayor's cities visiting over here. And I think one of the mayors came from Twin Cities, Minnesota.
 And he said, well, this gentleman has been overseeing a lot of Somalis who moved over that part of the world. And let's speak of his brain and how they thrive, how they succeeded, so that we can replicate some of those successful programs that they have implemented over there. And they shared with us.
 Very fascinating story. And the story goes that when Somalis started going to Minnesota in late, you know, 90s, a lot of business private business owners and the public basically get together. Just as you pointed out, it's about partnership and public basically working together. They put an interesting, you know, program for the community because they have taken, they realized those folks have a lot of potential in terms of bilingual, in terms of starting new businesses,
 in terms of basically investment. And now Somali communities in Minnesota basically contribute to local economy, have a billion dollars a year. And they pay $75 million taxes basically to the coffers of the state basically. And I was wondering basically how do we replicate that success basically story over here basically. Thank you very much for affording me this opportunity to talk to you in front of you, and I appreciate it.
 Thank you. I just want you to know that that collaboration with other cities continues. Actually, I was meeting with Mayor Hodges from Minneapolis two nights ago, and so we have tried to learn from what they've done well and vice versa.
 And actually another good thing that's happening on that level is that along with Mayor Kenney from Philadelphia and Mayor Stanton from Phoenix, I'm co-sponsoring a resolution at the next U.S. Conference of Mayors meeting next month urging comprehensive immigration reform because the cities of the country believe that
 That's what our communities need. So the mayors are continuing to both learn from each other and to try to support good public policy at the national level, again inspired by and encouraged by the people in our cities. Thank you. Thank you both. Next we're going to invite some of our panelists.
 Partners who exemplify, I think, some best practices of how we partner together with living out that idea of equity in collective partnership arrangements. I want to invite Jennifer Devlin, Esmeralda Sanchez, and Arlene Kimura to join us up here, and I'll vacate the seat so you can...
 But please share with us more of your wonderful work, and I look forward to hearing. Thank you, Alberto. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Fritz. Thank you so much for moving this work along. We do have a little PowerPoint in there somewhere. Thank you.
 My name is Jennifer Devlin, and you all know that I'm staff with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and that my job is to work on city projects to do environmental restoration, stream restoration, but also to do green infrastructure project in neighborhoods.
 And the other part of my work is to run a grants program to encourage all Portlanders to do watershed projects in their neighborhoods. Because best watershed management includes having everyone prevent pollution and to do restoration projects, reaching out to each and every Portlander is an important part of the success of our watershed projects.
 Hello everyone, my name is Marola Sanchez. I come from the Indigenous Studies program at Portland State. I'm an intern at BES with the Community Watershed Stewardship Program. My role in QISP is the grant coordinator and it has been by far the best experience I've had working with creative, diverse residents in Portland. So it's been really great and happy.
 Great. So in 2011, BES staff and interns from Portland State sought input and advice from the city's New Portlander program. And together we developed promising practices for our program, and we also developed an assessment tool to track our progress in reaching different members of Portland.
 To better understand the needs of the immigrant community and to build on previous efforts to consider equity in our grants, we met with Paulo Catlani and primary feedback from
 him and his community to improve service to New Portlander populations was that our program hadn't made underserved community leaders aware of the grant and hadn't made the underserved community leaders aware of how the grant could actually serve their specific community needs, such as engaging youth in productive activities, building a sense of place in communities, and familiarizing the immigrant communities with Portland's natural areas.
 Our follow-up actions included cross-education between the Portland Newcomers Program staff and our staff to learn about what are watershed projects and what are the needs of the immigrant community. We also met with community leaders from ERCO and other venues to initiate discussions on how our grants might serve their communities better.
 And we also include New Portlander program staff on our grant selection committee so that we could really institutionalize preference for projects that were the most inclusive. And we have ongoing meetings with New Portlander community leaders to develop further ideas for funding. The quiz program has learned much from the collaborations with New Portlander program.
 through these grant projects. St. Mary Ethiopian Orthodox Church, parking lot stormwater retrofit, Russian-speaking networks of Oregon, naturescaping for a better environment program, Zomi Community Youth Gardens and Watershed Project, African Youth Community Organization Watershed Team, Oregon Bhutanese Community Organization Project,
 community gardens and Johnson Creek cleanup. Iraq Society of Oregon, METO, excuse me for mispronouncing this maybe, Mesopotamians. We have a lot to learn from the Iraqi Society. On the banks of the Willamette, the BS community watershed stewardship program looks forward to
 to continue to be a S&PSU partnership with the New Portlanders program through the Policy Commission. Thank you. Thank you to everybody in the room. It has really enriched our work and made our program better. Thank you, everybody. Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Fritz, thank you. I have a little piece of work that I do in East Portland called Mobile Playgrounds.
 And our children do not normally have developed parks to play in. And so about four years ago, five years ago now, we said, well, how can we do this better? And it turns out the Parks Bureau has for 105 years done a mobile playground, but they've never come out to East Portland. So we work with them diligently, and they were a little bit –
 stunned at the amount of energy that went into it, but they finally agreed. They said, okay, you guys can have mobile playgrounds, but you have to raise money. And I agreed. I'll raise the money for a little bit of time, but you guys have to institutionalize it. The other thing we did was say, hire our kids. Your playground staff needs to look like our children. So we worked with them on changing their hiring practices for seasonal help. You don't need a recreation degree to toss a ball around.
 You do need some ability and maturity to drive a van and to manage a lot of kids. As a result of working with them over the years, last year there were 197 seasonal applications for the playground program, and 71 of those applicants spoke another language, and they hired 28%. We are very excited about that changing demographics.
 We also moved a couple of our playground programs to full-time, five days a week, with lunches. And we continue to work with them on alternative sites where there are children gathering that need the services that Parks Bureau provides. And the offshoot of it has been some Sabetis, New Portlanders, Parks for New Portlanders World Cup soccer.
 And that's a collaboration between other segments of the community and a bureau that was pretty entrenched in doing things the same old way until we came along, and they said, maybe we ought to do things a little differently. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks to Anne from David Douglas High School who's here with us today. Thank you for your partnership in the World Cup soccer and all of this. This is Anne Downing. One of our great partners. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. As you can see, the fabric of this is not only broad but deep. We are working across communities but also across generations, and it was just lovely to see this most recent panel exemplify that. I now want to take this opportunity to invite Som Subeli, Ms. Janice McDonald, and Alexis Gabriel to join us. Please. Hello, Mayor, Commissioner Fritz, and Fritz.
 My name is Somnath Subedi and I am the program coordinator of Parks for New Portland's program. In 2008, I became a New Portlander. I am a former refugee for almost two decades and I am a city employee now. City and community can partner to design our Portland way. Thank you Commissioner Fritz, City Council members, Parks Bureau Director Mike Abate and Art Hendricks.
 It used to be every second of Welcome to America, new discoveries, but it's a week now. Every week I know a new thing. For the past six years, I can personally attest to the challenge of working with and for government. I imagine that every day in your role as a city commissioner and mayor, you feel enormous pressure for the safety, well-being, and liability of the people of Portland.
 I too feel that pressure to make sure that our communities find their way in a place where the language, customs and access to resources are different. I am a community face and have a government job at the same time. In some ways, our new home is better, much better. But in other ways, we unfortunately are treated as needy, strangers or visitors or unfortunately we are felt we are not welcome.
 Since working for the city, I am impressed by the dedication and commitment from the staff. Yet, the one area that I think some fall short is they lack the first-hand experience, understanding, or relating to our unique challenge. New Portlanders, through this commission, get an opportunity, the envision, to build welcoming communities and better systems.
 and to help redefine the government system. It will help build a bridge between dominant culture and our communities and provide needed guidance on policy and how to make equity a reality. Lastly, it's a historic moment so that my daughter and new Portland kids and families won't have to worry in future so that we can be more stronger and richer Portland. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, Mayor Hales, commissioners. Thank you. My name is Janice McDonald and I work for PBOT in the Active Transportation and Safety Division. I'm also co-chair of DEEP. I want to briefly tell you about two examples of my work with the New Portlander community. Back in 2009, I was working on Portland Sunday Parkways and in charge of community engagement. Polo Catalani and Moses Raines from ERCO came to our team and asked us how their youth could be part of our great event.
 We all decided that our greatest need was for intersection volunteers. So we agreed, but Polo and Moses came up with a much cooler name for the youth, which was Junior Cops. The volunteer gig was part of a larger plan to teach the youth about civic engagement. The youth and their parents attended a conversation with the East Portland Police Precinct, which is a beautiful thing because the youth, parents, and police got to break down stereotypes.
 The girls even got to witness that women could be police officers too. After that, there was a training for the youth as to their responsibilities at Sunday Parkways. On the day of North Sunday Parkways, five cars rolled up and the youth piled out. They'd never been to this part of Portland and were so excited. All day, they waved to passing participants and escorted drivers around the route. Their smiles were infectious.
 It was hard not to notice the block after block of youth volunteering. Sunday Parkway's participants expressed their delight in having youth, and youth of color specifically, being part of the large community event. The next month, the youth returned as junior cops, and since then in the years, we have developed a few ways the youth have connected to Portland Sunday Parkways.
 From volunteering to leading games from their homelands, to organized bike rides with Safe Routes to school staff, to more recently the Parks for New Portlanders, Portland World Cup, soccer, youth playing games at Bloomington Park during Sunday Parkways, and introducing their families and friends to Sunday Parkways. And to a few weeks ago, the collaboration of SOM and the New Portlander Cultural Celebration Association.
 of Parks for New Portlanders as a highlight of the East Portland Sunday Parkways, which I believe all of you attended. In 2013, I moved from Sunday Parkways to Safe Routes to School. I had the honor of shuttling the students from Harrison Park School to City Council so they could talk to you about the Jay Journal.
 You may remember that there were many issues in the journal, such as bad taste in cafeteria food, unhealthy food choices in neighborhood markets, and transportation concerns regarding lack of sidewalks and speeding cars. I was so impressed with those students and the authenticity of their presentations. I offered to come and talk to them about their transportation concerns, since one of the main goals of Safe Routes to School is to have safe ways to get to school by walking and biking. A few Portland police officers also joined me in their classroom.
 What I didn't know is that I would be the one that would be educated. When people tell me it is unsafe for them to walk or bike their kids to school, I instantly think of unsafe neighborhoods, unsafe streets, fast cars, no sidewalks, intersections that are hard to cross. But what I heard, and I did hear those from the youth, but what I heard from them even louder, was that students were being bullied on the way to school, passing by gang activity, or needles on sidewalks.
 Those were new issues for us to hear. They're not new issues for these youth. Since then, I've met with the teacher, Tim Schultz, who also came with the Jade Journal students, and their principal. We have talked about these issues. I've met with APANO staff to see if we can organize walking school buses to make it safer. Our whole goal is coming together and making it safer for the kids to walk and bike to school and around their neighborhood.
 So why do I tell you these two stories? Because we are all very busy in our jobs. And it is easy to ignore or push aside the harder work, such as working with communities who may not speak English or may not understand the ways of our government. But it is exactly that reason that we as civil servants need to take the time to look at our practices and our policies. We need to be inclusive and intentional in our work.
 The guidance from community elders has been invaluable not only to open my eyes to the concerns and barriers of New Portlanders, but to help me craft our programs in order to better serve all Portlanders. I look forward to working with the New Portlanders Policy Commission. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to make this pretty quick. My name is Alexis Gabriel. I work with both Janice and so I'm through the Sunday Barquees Program.
 My work has been tied to provide an opportunity to connect all of our communities through the city. As Sam said, it's important to build bridges to connect and support these communities and feeling comfortable, feeling safe, feeling a part of this city. So they've kind of said everything that I wanted to say. So from there, thank you guys for having us talk. Thank you. Thank you for being here.
 Thank you for your participation and your comments. Next, we want to invite some of our city elders, some of our mentors, some of those leaders who've come before us and who remain and who have their own experiences and their own wisdom to share with us. I want to invite to the
 To the podium, Ms. June Arima, who is the former executive director of the Nikkei Legacy Center, representing a panel today, if she'll join us. And I also want to invite Mr. Sho Dosono, who needs no introduction, but is a business leader in our community and has been so for many years. And Mr. Tom Potter, Mayor Tom Potter, who
 who I would like to invite also to the podium to provide some perspective about why we need this August body, why we need as a city a new Portlanders Commission. If you would join us up here. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. Who would like to go first, June? Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor and commissioners, thank you for inviting us to be here. My name is June Arima Schumann. I'm a volunteer for APANO, serving on the new Portland Policy Council. Last November, as Syria's growing crisis generated thousands of refugees seeking safety and security, leaders across much of America spoke against allowing Syrian refugees to,
 to their cities and states. Fear of terrorism overshadowed our country's long tradition of refuge and opportunity. Mayor Hales went against that tide of fear. He opened our city to Syrian refugees with these words.
 As Syrians flee terror in their home state, Portland will welcome with open arms the individuals and families that the federal government places here. We as Portlanders, Oregonians, Americans, and human beings need to remember that refugees are fleeing the senseless violence that has taken so many lives recently. Thank you.
 I will be greeting Portland's first Syrian refugee family at the airport, and I expect the community will help make our city their new home. It's the Portland way. Establishing the new Portlander Policy Commission will be one step to formalize our city's actions such as this, and beyond one mayor and beyond one event, and for these reasons.
 World events are generating new groups of immigrants and refugees in increasing numbers and in greater diversity. This trend is likely to continue as economic globalization and political unrest in different parts of the world generate newly displaced peoples.
 Portland needs to be prepared to welcome and integrate these new Portlanders with their diverse backgrounds and circumstances that are similar to, but also very different from past immigrants and refugees. Successful integration of new cultures, perspectives, and worldviews into the city's life would enrich us all. Thank you. Thank you. Who's next? Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Shoto Zono.
 And I may want to just fill in a couple of blanks that maybe some of you don't know about my background. Some of you may know that I ran for mayor a few years back. And what I did was when I ran for mayor, people wanted to know who I was, where I came from. This is the only thing I said to people gathered there. So I would always say my grandparents came to Oregon in 1898. My mother was born and raised in Portland.
 and I will go on to my business background. Never spoke about my immigrant background, not because I was ashamed of it, because when I came in 1955 as a 10-year-old, I didn't speak a word of English, so obviously I was an immigrant from a foreign country, Japan, devastated by World War II.
 So I never spoke about immigrant background until about two years ago. I was recognized as Immigrant of the Year. And ever since then, I've been really very proud of my immigrant background. I want people to know that I have been fairly successful in my business, my personal life, having been welcomed by the city 62 years ago. So I'm an old, new Portlander. 30 years longer than you, Amanda. So...
 And I also served on the Human Rights Commission, the very first Human Rights Commission that was established between the city of Portland and Multnomah County. I want to congratulate Mayor Potter for reestablishing the current Equity and Human Rights Commission during his term. I think by tenure of vacancy, we wouldn't talk about human rights because we seemed that things were going very well.
 But during the time I was on the Human Rights Commission was the very first incident I recall where an immigrant was killed by a group of skinheads, a gentleman named Seraf, a student from Ethiopia.
 At that point in time, we passed the first hate crime law in the city of Portland and the city of Oregon. So we have played an important role, but things have changed today. We have many, many more immigrants from Southeast, post-Vietnam War, the war-torn North Africa, Middle East, and so on. Many, many more communities of color are coming back.
 way past my time, but I'm here to really support the notion that New Portlanders is a tremendous program that supports the new immigrant communities here and the important fabric of our society. So I want to thank you for it. I'm sure you'll pass unanimously. I can't imagine any commissioner would be opposed to this, so I want to thank you in advance. And it's the right thing to do and the right time to do this, so thank you for this opportunity. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales.
 Commissioner Fish, appreciate the opportunity to be here. And I'm very proud to be here with the New Portlanders, with the people who make Portland what it is. And I think that by passing this ordinance, that you're going to move the democracy dial another step forward in Portland. And it needs to move forward.
 It needs to because there are still problems. You heard from our Portland State Authority. You've heard from other people the problems that exist because people coming here do not have the same access to services that others do. So I am pleased that you will be supporting this. Like Sho, I assume that you're all for it because it's such a good idea. Good ideas are hard to pass up.
 I want to say that our communities, our new communities, our new Portlanders are really good, decent people. They work hard and unlike some other people, they really look forward to the prospects of engaging with their public leaders and the issues that affect them on a daily basis.
 So we're very fortunate to be in Portland. All the good work that you folks do every day. I know you tend to be criticized a lot, but I'm here to tell you thank you for all the work that you do to make this city a better place. And today we have the opportunity to push that dial a little bit further down the road.
 Over the years, I've been involved with these different communities, and currently I'm working with those on the workers project down on MLK to see that they can have a home for their workers, a place where they can thrive and grow and become the Portlanders that we want them to be. So thank you for your patience today and listening. Thank you.
 and for your commitment to equity, your commitment to making Portland the kind of place that we all want. Thank you. Mayor, since we don't often have the privilege of having Mayor Potter join us, can I just make one comment? I had the great honor of serving with Tom Potter for six months, and I've served with a number of mayors, and it was a singular honor to serve with you, Tom. And one thing that you said,
 that taught me was you sincerely believed and continue to believe that we can be one city. And you welcome people into this building, and I saw it. And you welcome people that had a lot of apprehension about coming into this building or maybe testifying or raising their voice. And I think we all have an obligation to continue what you did into the future because I think what you did was important, sir.
 So thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you all. I do want to credit the current mayor and Commissioner Fritz for also being very open to the new Portlanders. So thank you for your leadership. Pleasure. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to that distinguished panel. We're almost done. We want to thank you for your patience and for continuing to be part of this conversation.
 We now will invite closing statements from Leigh Pocha and Linda Castillo if you would come up. I don't know about all of you, but I'm feeling pretty inspired. This is again, I think the feeling and the experience that we have from our communities, they are so resilient, they are so creative, they are so hardworking, and they are so present every day in our lives in one way or another.
 And so I just feel so honored with the stories that we heard today and your responses to those stories and the work that you've been doing. And I really feel we have a great opportunity to just continue to move our city to the next place as we prepare for the waves of folks that come into our community and continue to be diverse and very different.
 but I think as those individuals come into our community and they're struggling with the challenges of integration, I think for us as civil and public servants, we also struggle with the issues of integration, and I think we have a great opportunity here to make use of the wonderful knowledge, skills, and experiences that this community brings, and that our public servants and our public officials also are gaining in that process. So I look forward
 to your support for supporting this commission and the opportunities for us to continue to build and grow as a great city so thank you for your time and attention i think after all the comments i don't have much to add i think wonderful thing has been said the only one thing that i wanted to
 express my gratitude and appreciation toward you again, Commissioner Fritz and Mayor Hale. Commissioner Fritz, my gratitude toward you for appointing me originally as the first group of folks who are serving the new Portland Council, and I'm so excited and looking forward to your leadership to push this council into a full commission and, you
 you know, I am a proud Portlander. I am a proud former refugee, and I'm very sure that as our city leaders, you're going to continue to make us proud, and you're going to make us continue to be very, very happy citizens of this town and this city. And so I'm just hoping that we'll open the door, pushing an infrastructure that would help to encourage
 and welcoming the next flow of refugees and immigrants into our town to be productive just like all of us. So thank you so, so very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. I want to see if there's anyone that wasn't part of this wonderful presentation that wants to speak this afternoon. If there's anyone else who would like to speak about this ordinance, come on up, please. We have a sign-up sheet. We have a sign-up sheet. Okay, we've got a whole bunch of people signed up. Then we'll take them right off the sheet.
 Come on up. The first three. Please come up. And I apologize if I'm mispronouncing your name or reading your writing incorrectly. Wajid Zaid, John Calhoun, Imam Najib from the Muslim Community Center. They'll be followed by Kolini Fusta, Ibrahim Turk, and Margarita. So we can stay on schedule. I hope you can each take about two minutes.
 Try to make your points, please. Ajdi, you want to start? We'll start with our senior imam. He passed the bat, you know, to be. Bismillah ar-Rahim. In the name of God, the beneficent and merciful. Mayor Hales, Amanda Fritz, Nick Fish, commissioners.
 It's indeed a privilege and honor for me to be able to come and be a part of this initiative, this group that has come forward and for your insight too, Amanda, for moving something forward like this. But I'd just like to say something briefly. I read something when I came into the chambers and it read, it said, you'll be speaking with the city council,
 Say you have three minutes to speak, they'll ring a bell. Sometimes we listen, sometimes we don't. Sometimes you win, sometimes you won't. But I thought that was very nice. I mean, at least it lightened the mood. And I know that you have more to deal with than just listening and saying no and yes to things because the city of Portland is quite a city.
 And in saying that, I'd like to say, you know, I had an opportunity to come to Portland in 1975. And I can always remember crossing the Fremont Bridge. And it said 325,000 people in the state of Portland. I said, wow. You know, my wife and I, we loved it coming out of San Francisco, places like Chicago, where there is always a hustle and a bustle. This was completely a breath of fresh air for us. So, you know, in supporting something like this, I'm able to look back and see,
 how Portland has progressed over the years and how Portland has really been able to maintain its competitive edge and I believe a lot of it has to do with the type of people and the individuals that we've had in there in terms of leadership from the mayor's office, the state, you
 county, et cetera, that has brought Portland to this arena where we are. So I think that this is a natural, natural progression. So I'm certainly in favor of the diversity. I'm in favor of establishing the job market. I'm in favor of including the immigrants, many of these immigrant brothers and sisters. And I call them my brothers and sisters because
 I'm a Muslim and I practice the Muslim faith. They are my brothers and sisters because we believe in a certain principles of belief. But they don't come to America to be other than good Americans and good citizens. I guarantee you, many of them, you know some of them, they work in the mayor's office. They work in the city government. And they've contributed to not only to the development of Portland but to this great nation. So I would encourage you.
 Mayor Hales and commissioners to support this type of an initiative. I believe this will help Portland remain competitive. And like it says now that Portland is the most livable city in the country.
 more maybe in the world because we have all the elements in place. So I thank you very much for your time and your attention and allowing me to have this opportunity to speak to you. Thank you. Thank you, Imam. And I know I speak for my two colleagues that we always listen. Sometimes we agree with you and sometimes we don't, but we always listen. If that was a handout, it was an unauthorized handout. And we will find out who wrote it. Clever. It would be a short-termer for the city, whoever authored that. Thank you.
 Hello, Mayor Hales, Commissars Fritz and Fish. My name is John Calhoun. I live in the Hillsdale neighborhood. On 9-11, I had a Saudi student living in my house, and we watched the towers come down together. As a result, I was pretty sensitive to electricity.
 the potential for flashback. I was also at the time president of Neighborhood House. We had, as we always have, a lot of clients who are immigrants, and a number of them were Muslims. So I asked to put together an interfaith group to see what we could do to protect them. Out of those meetings,
 I've met many people, including these at this table, who became friends. And I became aware of the contributions of this community. The engineers, and I worked at Intel for 20 years myself,
 Intel couldn't function without immigrants from especially Asia. The doctors, I'm not sure our hospitals could stay open without the immigrants that we have there. They've become my friends. Today, the U.S. is suffering from an immigrant backlash. We have a candidate for president.
 who has made the backlash central to his platform. And this has led to some immigrants, especially Muslims, being afraid to go out in public. Some of them are harassed, as you know. There's some bad headlines. There was an article in Foreign Policy Magazine. I don't know if you remember reading this, but it says, Portland is the most livable city in the country unless you're a Muslim, right?
 The value of this approach here is to be an answer to that backlash and say, no, that's not Portland. It also opens doors for the non-immigrant community, like myself, to be able to connect and be able to assure immigrants that there are people on their side here. Thank you. Respected Mayor and respected Commissioners, I came here today to speak on behalf of
 of 400 Muslim engineers in Intel and Tektronix and Sharp as well as HP. I speak on behalf of the 25 Muslim doctors that treat Portland hospitals. I speak on behalf of the 30 Muslim dentists and imams and teachers that are in public schools. Respected mayor and commissioners,
 Our beautiful city of roses, the city of Portland, Oregon, has been named and recognized as an American gateway city. We are a gateway to global movements of families, ideas, and great community leaders. Such leadership has been a driving force since the turn of our 19th century. As the Syrian Americans landed to Portland, Oregon, their parents were paddlers, were traders, and
 The American-Syrian narrative, along with many others, was being written. American Syrians thrived in American society, and leaders such as the great Republican governor, the late Victor Atiyah, were produced.
 This narrative also produced a great world-class leader in an urban planning who created what's called the PSU, the Urban University in the City, the late Nuhat Tulan. And now, without further respect of a great commissioner, the chair of Multnomah County, of that Syrian immigrant, Deborah Kafouri.
 My dear respected brothers and sisters, allow me to say that the American community today stands of beautiful colors. Today I stand here before you as a proud American Muslim and as an Arab American in support of the proposed founding of a permanent commission for the new Portland Council.
 As our colleagues have said in their testimonies earlier, this Commission will institutionalize the city's important commitment to positive integration of our new immigrant and refugee families, wherever they may come from, into the life and fabric of our beloved city, the City of Roses.
 This Commission will assist in adopting policies and recommending practices that assist city bureaus in creating consistent
 expectations and processes for the inclusion of our new refugees that came here, some of them by no choice other than as a result of our international crisis and our foreign policy. We have to remember that we have an ethical and moral before we have a political responsibility. We have an ethical and moral
 responsibility as human beings and citizens of the world that transcended the artificial boundaries created by colonial practitioners and the likes of Sy Speaker. In 2017, the world will commemorate the Sy Speaker Treaty, a treaty that divided us, a treaty that created artificial boundaries, the treaty that created all the human crises that we are suffering today.
 My dear respected elected officials, it is very important to become successful through partnership rather than uncertainties and conflict that will come through division. I hope and I ask...
 each one of you to take this consideration and also to talk to other fellow commissioners that are not here that this is the way Portland has to lead, better than Minnesota, better than other cities, because we are the best and we can be a great example for inclusion and successful partnership. Thank you very much for allowing us to speak on behalf of so many individuals that are great contributors to our success.
 and to our narrative in memory of Nohaat Toulan, in memory of Victor Atiyah. We ask you and we urge you that you engage in such beautiful. Mayor Charlie Hills, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioner Fish, people will remember you, that you are great healers, you are great dignifiers of our human family. Thank you very much. Thank you for your beautiful words. Could you just put your name in the record, please? Could you give us your name, please?
 Wajdi, W-A-J-D-I, last name Saeed, S-A-E-D. I wanted everybody to know. My first name is Love, and my last name is Happy. Love and Happy. And your words were beautiful. Thank you so much. You're well-named. Thank you, Wajdi. The next three, please come up. Oh, thank you. We'd love to have a copy of that. Kolini, Fustavere, Ibrahim, Turkey, if I have you right, from Hillsborough, and then also Margarita de...
 Good afternoon and welcome. Ladies first again. Mr. Mayor and commissioners, thank you for inviting me. And first I would like to say. Just tell us your name. Sorry. My name is Margarita and I'm a Russian. And I usually say I'm Russian American because I'm here 19 years. And maybe for you it takes two minutes to get from street to the second floor. For me it takes 19 years.
 And I came to this country with my PhD degree. And talking about educational people, we came to the land of milk and honey, and we live with the pain because we were not welcome. And unfortunately, I don't want to upset you, but as a reality, I was not able to find a job until I hide my diploma and I tell I have a high school diploma. And my first job, I was a hoster.
 And once I was asked to wash dishes, and a mainstream person who is American, he started to laugh, and he told me, you are a dishes dog tonight. And I continued to smile, and I said, yes, I do. But I do advocate today, forgive me, not only for myself, but for my community. And thank you for everybody who invited us, because if you don't know, we are part of...
 coalition of colors and Russian-speaking community as a Slavic community. We are very diverse. And when you say Russian, it doesn't mean nationality. It means we all speak Russian language as a common language, but it's about 160 different nationalities. Yes, we have a white skin, but we are still diversity and we belong to community of colors.
 And thank you, professor from Peace University, because if you read our profile, you will see our needs. Many people educated came, and it was not ever allowed to do jobs. So as you know, we have a good degree. And as was mentioned before, on Intel and Microsoft, about 30% engineers, they're Russian-speaking people. But people who was born here, they
 Our children, they still experience discrimination, and they hide their nationality. That's why we are not visible. Nobody can see us. And about 70% of our community, they are born here. Our children, our grandchildren, who are ashamed to say who they are. And it's not the right thing. When I was a student in...
 Lewis and Clark College. I was just one student in a group of school counselors who
 foreign person and who is not mainstream, who is immigrant. And every day I experience, you know, that I'm not welcome. And I was thinking, if I'm an adult person and have a hard time, how hard is for our student in the school? Because we don't have enough Russian-speaking staff in the school. And as a result, 25% of our children drop off school. And it's a very dramatic, you know, numbers.
 And I'm very thankful to Mr. Lipo Cha, who is here from IRCO, because I was fortunate to work for IRCO for 15 years. And when I calculate how many people I serve, I serve 8,000 families, not only 8,000 individuals. And those 8,000 families from 26 countries.
 And I know needs of immigrant, and I know how hard is life. And I only compare immigration as a war. If you survive war, you became strong, but it's better not to be in a war. Because if you will...
 look on the rate of death or cancer, which is a result of stress, that's how immigrants pay for this. And I have to admit, even we are very educated people, we never treat in the same way. We don't receive same salary, we don't receive same respect, unfortunately. And sometimes, you know, we're not have same opportunities. And I advocate not only for myself, but entire community. Please, you know, remember about us.
 And I love my brother and sister from color community because my best friend from Ethiopia, from Chad, from Nigeria, not so many from mainstream, unfortunately. And we have an IRCO, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization. Thank you, IRCO. We have an African house. We have an Asian family center. And until today, we don't have a place for Russian people to come. We have a very small community.
 department which i am working right now russian oregon social service a few people very limited services but we don't have a wide variety of social services and we all dream to have a russian house if you look slavic profile and evaluation for needs which is done by portland state university you can see the summary that
 Slavic people, Russian speaking, they dream to have a place we can come and serve and share our heritage and not to be ashamed of our heritage. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Welcome. My name is Mayor Charles, commissioners. Good afternoon. My name is Rahim Turki. I am a senior engineer at Washington County. I'm also a member of the Muslim Education Trust Board of Directors.
 I have a few comments based on a personal story in support of establishing this commission. I came to Oregon in 1979 to go to college. While I was going to college, the circumstances had changed and the political environment in my home country made it unsafe for me to go home.
 That forced a change of my status. My status changed from a student on a student visa to an immigrant looking for a safe home. Since then, this country, the state of Oregon, and this metropolitan area became that safe home for myself.
 I, as most immigrants, work hard to create opportunities for myself to have a slice of that American dream and contribute to this great country. I, as most immigrants, pay taxes. Immigrants pay millions in local, state, personal, and property taxes that substantially contribute to our economy, infrastructure, and other government services.
 When Washington County gave me my current job, I felt the need. I didn't take someone else's job and some of my state. Most new immigrants bring skill sets that this country needs. Our domestic workplace is not the same.
 needs the additional skills that immigrants bring. New immigrants and their children will be a vital source for labor power, skills, and talent to fill the United States, this community, employment, increasing labor needs. Our shared prosperity is fed by the resources and labor of people who have arrived here generation after generation to become a part of the American story.
 A community that fails to reap the full benefit of that power loses it to the detriment of our own progress. I, as most immigrants, both documented and undocumented, contribute to the social diversity and economic vitality of our community. Newport learners open businesses and hire American workers. Newport learners...
 improve on the financial stability of neighborhoods and community. New arrivers spend money on American goods and services which help businesses grow. Immigrants new and old bring customs and cultures that blend with our own, elevating our society and our public discourse.
 I'm going to interrupt you. I can see you have your testimony written. If you'd like to give us the rest, that would be really helpful. I'm done. Just one sentence. Okay, go ahead. My message today is simple. All people are entitled to be treated with compassion and dignity. Our fellow Americans overwhelmingly take that moral obligation to heart.
 Establishing this commission will take us a long way. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. No problem. Welcome. Governor Fritz helps Governor Fish. My name is Colini Fusitoa. I'm from the island of Tonga. My parents moved here in 1975.
 So we came here solely for economic reasons. There was three of us. I happen to be one of two that graduated from Portland State University. I'm here from the target community in support of the new Portlander Policy Commission. We're here in Portland since the 70s as mentioned. We're all over the place here in Portland. We're just not being noticed. I work for ERCO, Asia Family Center.
 Mayor Hales, when you were running for mayor, you stopped by at our office, Asian Family Center. I brought some members from my community to listen to your campaign. Right across the street from the community room of Asian Family Center, you can see an apartment complex that has a retaining wall, one old one and one new one. The old one was built by a Tongan contractor in the 80s.
 The new one was built by another Tongan contractor just a few years ago. We're here in Portland. We're not going anywhere. We're here to stay. But I'll be here from the Tongan community to support the new Portland program. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Next three, please. Isko, Mohamed, Saeed, Amir, they're both from the Northwest Somali Community Organization.
 And Rick Needy. Okay, are you still here? Please come up. Rick's here. Okay. The others might have had to leave. And then we have Barabuti and Bashir. Okay. Go ahead, Rick, while they're getting settled. Okay, well, Mayor Hales, it's good to see you in a more civil environment than the last time I saw you. Yes, it is. Thank you.
 So thank you, Mayor Hales. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. And Nick saw me coming up, so he ran. I don't think that's why. My name is Rick Nitti. I'm Executive Director of Neighborhood House. And I'm here to speak positively and ask for your support for the Newport Lender Policy Commission. Why am I here?
 Well, Neighborhood House was founded 111 years ago to serve the needs of the immigrant population that was arriving in Portland at that point in time. Those immigrants were coming from places like from Southern Europe and Eastern Europe. But today, we continue to serve the needs of immigrant and refugee populations. One of the people we serve was a commander of a Soviet naval ship. One of our employees was the daughter of
 the mayor of Mogadishu. All of our people have stories, and all of them experience discrimination and struggle. And we feel that this commission is a way of taking a giant step forward. I'd just like to say that to show how strongly Neighborhood House is in support of this, John Calhoun was here and left, but we have three other board members here. Can you stand? That's great. Thank you for coming.
 Thank you. Vanya? Yeah. So we're here in numbers. They're my leaders. So thank you for the time. You know what I have to say. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Well, thank you, Mayor Ells and Commissioner Mondand. Good to see you again. Actually...
 Commissioner Nick reminded me of saying this again, and I'm proud to be Iraqi-American, and when it comes to democracy, I'm proud of the American part so far. This building, I said this before, that's where I met democracy when I heard Mayor Tom Potter talking about people engaging in decision-making, and today I'm seeing another inspirational moment when there is, let's say, transition of power, exchange of opinions.
 That's the good news. And here's the bad part that I'm going to talk about, why we need to be included in the decision-making process. An Iraqi student, he was boarded off an airplane three months ago, Southwest Airlines. A friend of mine, an activist, half American, half Egyptian, she sent them a letter protesting, and let me read their response to her. Okay.
 Dear Sarah, thank you for sharing your thoughts with us. We welcome on board more than 100 million customers each year. Uh, blah, blah, blah. Safety is our always first focus, and our employees are trained to make decisions to safeguard the security of our crews and customers on every flight. We would not remove a passenger from a flight without a collaborative decision rooted in established procedures.
 And they dare to say, South-East neither condones nor tolerate discrimination of any kind. Very legal, eloquent language. Yet, when it comes to decision-making, their employees are trained. I guess, just guess who was included in that decision-making process to discriminate against someone who just said a couple of words in Arabic and someone felt uncomfortable with that. So, I urge you to move forward.
 let's say, forward with the further step of democracy and include us, the communities of color, to the city. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish, and the rest who are not here, and my community members. I'm honored to be here to join you today. I come from Somalia.
 I have lived in a refugee camp myself. I've been a refugee for over 20 years. That's over two-thirds of my life. I've lived in this city, in this great city, for the last almost 10 years now.
 I speak to the challenges, to the assets, to the strengths that have been brought here by Dr. Ann, Professor Ann, who I'm actually working with producing that report on the Somali community. I tell you one story of the challenges that we face. I graduated from Washington State University back in 2012.
 with a master's in business administration and stakeholder management. Those were the years when the economy was rough. There wasn't so many employment opportunities. We had employers who were doing group interviews, and so I would go to the interviews, like two or three interviews a day or a week,
 We would come out of the meeting, out of the interview, and everybody would be congratulating me, telling me, oh, you got this, you got this job, you've done a marvelous job. But then I wouldn't even get an email back telling me we've even gone for somebody else, let alone getting the job. And today, I own three businesses. So that speaks to the challenges, but also to the strength and resilience within our diverse communities of color.
 I'm here as a proud immigrant. I'm here as a proud Muslim, as a proud African. But all of us, I'm a proud citizen too. I'm a citizen of this country. I'm here to stay like was said earlier by somebody else. I fully support speaking from the largest African community, from the largest Muslim community. I support this, but also with one caveat.
 I have been following this council, even though I haven't been part of the meetings. I tend to follow national stories. In every major city across the United States, we have Immigrants and Refugees Commission. And I was looking at these people. All they were talking about is immigrants, refugees, refugees.
 But the name is Newportlander. Why can we not be brave enough to say this is the Immigrant and Refugee Affairs Commission? It's not just correct, but it's the right thing. If you're talking about inclusion, we should have started with the name, I think. And that is the foundation. We have people moving all across America. This is the number one destination for Americans all over the United States for the last three, four years now.
 We have our own unique challenges. We are immigrants. We are refugees. We need this to be named in honor of our strengths, in honor of our diversity, in honor of the assets that we bring to these communities. And not just New Portland, but the communities the immigrants and refugees are first commissioned. That's my own humble suggestions. And I think that would go farther than just saying New Portland Council. Thank you so much. You and I can have a long discussion about that at some point. I
 prefer the term New Portlander because maybe it's now Old Portlanders, as Shota Zono said, Old New Portlanders, but we are now Portlanders. Portlanders are home. We are no longer immigrants. We have immigrated from our previous places, but this is my home. Somebody said to me in the campaign that I just did that I should go back to England. I would like that.
 This is my home. I have lived here. I am a Portlander now. And so that is obviously a conversation that is for a different time, but that's my belief that it is inclusionary and it helps other people who are not immigrants and refugees to understand that it is more inclusive, more welcoming. Thank you.
 We really can't. Second you? My personal opinion is to second you. Thank you. Good debate. Thank you. Thank you very much. And that has been a conversation that we've had over the years. So thank you for bringing it up, Nam. It's important to voice that because there's many people who have that question. So thank you for raising it. And the last folks we had signed up? Okay. Anyone else that would like to speak today?
 Well, I know we're going to have some comments. We're not actually voting on this today, right? It will be voted on next week. It will be voted on in two weeks, on the 8th. But I would invite our colleagues, Commissioner Fish, and if I'd like to. Let me have the honor of beginning. And first, I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for bringing forward the ordinance, and I want to thank Mayor Hales for being consistently supportive of the values and agenda that we have discussed today, including in his budget where it really matters today.
 and he has placed in his budget the money to fund these good deeds. So I thank my two colleagues. I'm going to be very brief because I think I don't think I can add much to the beautiful testimonials that we've had today. I do want to just observe this. Many of us here today love the game of soccer, and last night a young man born in Liberia who became a United States citizen in the year 2015 said,
 who plays for the Timbers and lives in Portland, scored the winning goal for the U.S. national team in a friendly, as a ramp-up to an important tournament. Darlington Nagby, Liberian immigrant. Dr. Bishmar, a Syrian immigrant, who if some would have their way, would have been barred from this country, who is a prominent doctor in our community but travels to the border of Syria on a regular basis to treat the victims of war. Liam Frost...
 Liam, who works for me, born in Wales, who two weeks ago took the oath and became a United States citizen and is filled with that joy and pride that comes from having the opportunity to say he is an American citizen. In fact, I will tell you, Liam knows more about civics than anyone I think I know. We had to take a test. What unites us here today is our deep understanding that refugees and immigrants are,
 enrich our country. It is not something we dispute. And frankly, the handful of elected officials that disagree with us at the federal level have done more to unify our community than anyone else. And I give them at least the credit for unifying us as we oppose bigotry, intolerance, and Islamophobia. What I want to close with is just a very brief personal story. I consider one of the
 of our work in that we get to spend time in the community with people at dinners and tributes and galas and small gatherings and large, and we get to hear the stories of people. And a few years ago, I was invited to go to an elementary school in Centennial by a young woman who was an AmeriCorps volunteer, and she wanted me to do a little civics class with her third graders. And there were about 10 kids around a table, and of course they had never met a city commissioner,
 and I had never been in this elementary school. And the stories they told me were of living in apartment complexes where they feared for their lives and they heard gunshots on a regular basis, where they talked about the concerns about having a nutritious meal on the table, and they talked about the anxieties they felt about their own futures. These are third graders. But what I learned is that everybody around the table spoke at least three languages.
 And what they may not have fully appreciated, but what we understand is that many of these children, immigrants, children of immigrants, refugees, with all these languages, are the future of our community. And we don't just say that because it's a cliché. We say that because, as Anne pointed out, this is the assets base. These are the assets that if we nurture...
 and if we treat like they are of value, are going to lead us forward. And this tremendous wealth of talent around the table of third graders, each of who spoke at least three languages, and by the way, they were mostly Cambodians, Russians, and Mexicans, Mexican-Americans, blew me away. So when people ask me, what's the future of our city? I say, go out to 82nd Street and look east. And as that part of our community continues to become rich in diversity and culture and tradition and history,
 It will benefit our city if we are smart and know how to leverage and capitalize on that strength. And what my colleagues are doing today is they're saying we're going to institutionalize a place where voices are heard that will continue beyond our services.
 I know it's unthinkable to think that the three of us may not be here forever, but beyond our service, there will be other people who sit here to whom a commission comes and gives wisdom and advice. That's the beauty of what you're doing. Again, colleagues, thank you for what you've done. This is a proud day, and I'm proud to be here today. And in two weeks, I will be proud to cast a vote of aye.
 so commissioner fred's thank you and what a wonderful proceeding this afternoon so thank you all first there is of course and that's why you've advocated for it a difference between a council or an advisory committee and a commission the commission model here in the city speaks directly to us as policy makers whether it's the planning commission or the historic landmarks commission they have actual policy making power
 And that's an important distinction. It's not just a difference of a word or the nameplate on the top of the letterhead. It actually has a difference in the power structure. And, of course, you know that, and that's why we're here, because that's appropriate information.
 to the importance of new Portlanders and our immigrant and refugee communities and fellow citizens here in Portland to be at the table that way with real power. So that's why I was teasing talk a little bit about being shy here. This is your building. You own this place. Yes.
 and you have power and you should exercise it. And, of course, we've seen that in wonderful ways in the budget process and elsewhere. So we've had an example of the power that should be exercised by the commission speaking to us and saying we need to do more of this or do that differently.
 and Portlanders coming forward to say to us as their elected officials or to all the departments that answered to us, we have a problem here, we have an opportunity here, help us deal with it. So when we had people come to our budget hearings and talk about sidewalks in East Portland, the commission will have the opportunity to hold us accountable. Are we making progress on sidewalks in East Portland? That was a specific issue.
 that got brought up by more than one of our immigrant and refugee communities in recent discussions. So this is an opportunity to make it real, and make it real in the budget, in ways like our program that now is institutionalized. I appreciate my colleagues' support for this. We started something a little bit innovative two budgets ago. Now it's in our ongoing program of making summer recreation and after-school recreation free for teenagers in our city.
 because we want them to have positive opportunities. So now the Montevilla Community Center is a teen center, and the centers that I'm so proud to have built in East Portland and Mount Scott, Poole, and Southwest will have programs for our young people that they won't have to worry about having $3 or $5 to be able to participate. And that's why, Commissioner Fritz, that's such great effort that you and your bureau are contributing.
 are carrying on, but watch us. Make sure that those efforts don't falter. And, again, there's real power. I hope and expect it will be exercised, but not just in how we spend money. Look at what we do in other ways. For example, who are we hiring?
 We just actually yesterday had a discussion about our new policy that I'm proud our city has led on what's called Ban the Box, which is if people have served time for a criminal conviction and then want to get back into the marketplace to work, they shouldn't be stopped by a little box that says, have you ever committed a crime? Because then they'll never get to work again, and guess what will happen? They'll be back into the criminal justice system. So Portland has led the way on that issue. What we need to lead the way in hiring –
 people of color and hiring people of color's companies to do work for the city.
 So watch that progress as well. Help us, don't just lobby us, help us as partners advance that agenda. I'm really proud that we have Khalid Ibrahim, our first Somali-born police officer. He needs company. We need more police officers, and we need more police officers from the Somali community and from every other community in the city, because then we will have a police bureau that properly oversees
 works for and understands who we serve. So there are lots of ways where you can make it real that way as well. And then help us also put appropriate pressure on the private sector and the foundation nonprofit sector to be good partners for what city government does.
 I was in Mayor Ed Lee's office not long ago actually talking about homelessness because we were down there visiting a facility that they've done better than what we've done. And he just mentioned in passing something that sort of made me crazy, which is that they wanted to light up one of the bridges. And so he'd made a few phone calls and gotten $25 million contributed to light up.
 one of the bridges. Well, I was happy for him, but I'm not sure if my first request would be for lighting up a bridge, as pretty as that might be. The point is, there are sources of wealth and community investment beyond the city's budget, which perhaps you can help us secure in partnership to do good things, whether it's hiring or building facilities or in serving our communities.
 So I expect that this commission will be powerful in all kinds of ways. Finally, a little bit of a flippant comment, but I'm not sure if this is a completely accurate quote, but I understand that when the Office of Neighborhood Associations, as it was then called, was created by a three-to-two vote of the city council over the objection of the mayor at the time,
 that that mayor, a man named Frank Ivancy, apparently blurted out something to the effect of, well, we're funding the opposition. I guess in his case that was possibly true. But what we're doing here is we're institutionalizing the new leadership. I don't think that's threatening at all. I think that's wonderful. So we appreciate what you're doing. Thank you.
 Thank you, colleagues. My mentor, Commissioner Gretchen Kifori, used to say that we pay people to disagree with us. And that's a similar way of saying we're funding the opposition. And she celebrated it, as do I. Thank you to Mayor Tom Potter, again, for being the father of the new way of how we do things. And in some ways, like Jimmy Carter, just really...
 in office for one term and establish so many things that has continued to prosper in years thereafter. So thank you so much for that.
 Thanks to Maria Lisa Johnson, the Director of the Office of Human Relations that first housed the Immigrant and Refugee Program, to Dante James, the first Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, which then took it on, and to Amalia Aliconda-Morris, the Director of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, where it now sits or is housed or is staffed.
 You may notice, if you read the ordinance very closely, that I purposefully did not say which entity is going to continue to staff the commission, just that it will have staff appropriated by the committee
 council in the budget process. That's something that I want to talk with Mayor-elect Wheeler about as to whether it is, where is it most appropriately staffed, whether it's in neighborhood involvement, whether it's in the mayor's office, whether it's an equity or somewhere else.
 The important thing is that we're establishing this commission. And we're establishing it for the reasons that Mayor Hale said, that it becomes important and it gives advice to every member of the council. The council is agreeing to put staff and have our bureaus participating with the council as non-voting members. I've just been re-elected, which I'm very happy and grateful to the Portland voters for doing so, so.
 Entering my third term, I can no longer say that I'm not a professional politician because obviously I am at this point. And so I have learned to count to three over the course of the last seven years. I want you all to know that after the community brought this concept to me and I said, that sounds good, of course I checked with the mayor and he said, that sounds good.
 The next person who said that sounds good was Commissioner Fish, and he was the one in the budget process who said, of course we're going to fund this, of course we're going to establish this, and he's the one who's been here rejoicing with us today. So thank you, Commissioner, for your ongoing partnership.
 Thank you to Linda Castillo and Lee Pocha, who have led this as co-chairs at the council and have guided this process. It's taken a while. And I was asked at the gathering that we had before this council hearing, why does democracy take so long? And it's because so many people need to be heard and how we have to consider everybody's viewpoint and try to come to something which it...
 is our best guess at this time. It's probably not perfect, and a future council may decide that there's something even better. But this is our best summary right now of what we think is going to work. Thank you to Dr. Ann Currie-Stevens for your diligent data gathering and your explaining of why things need to be, how things are, and then looking at how they need to be.
 Thanks to Claire Adamsick on my staff, as well as Andrea Valderrama in Commissioner Novick's office, and Diana Nunez in the Mayor's office for their help in shepherding this work. And the staff in every single one of the Council offices who cares about this and who has been involved, and I really appreciate that. Also our staff in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, not only Amalia, but Paolo Cazzalani, Brian Hoop, and Lisha Shretra.
 And then most importantly to you, the community. You demanded this. We have done it in response to what you have asked us to do. We need you. You are part of who we are. You are part of what makes us great. One of the nicest compliments I ever got during a campaign was...
 The first time I ran, I had done a lot of land use work. And somebody who had been involved in the statewide land use planning system set up 30 years before wrote to me from Corvallis, I think, and said, you are the kind of person we were hoping for when we envisioned this. So now we are looking for who are the next people that we were hoping for? Who are the children of our Russian-speaking population?
 PhD who had such struggles and who did the menial work because that's what you did to get by and then now has become such a leader in our community. How are things going to be different for your children, for your grandchildren, for my grandchildren, for all of our children and for each of us today? There are very real struggles being faced today and that's why this commission is going to be so helpful in helping us all figure out how do we do things better.
 So thank you very much to my colleagues, and thank you. As somebody who came here by choice and who had to take the test to become an American citizen rather than having it by right, it's very meaningful to me to be part of this wonderful work that we're doing together. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Thank you all very much for coming. We will take this up for a final vote two weeks from today, and we'll take a five-minute break and get ready for our next item, which is a completely different subject. Thank you all. And never something completely different. Never something completely different. Thank you very much. Well done. Oh, he is in the room. Okay. We're going to come back to order. Thank you. And get Sue to read the next item for us.
 Item 566, amend the city central plan district to increase the maximum height limit on block 8, Portland addition, and support construction of a replacement Multnomah County central courthouse. Okay, so this is a land use proceeding, but it's kind of a rare one because it's a legislative one, so it doesn't require all of the usual warnings and admonitions. I don't think we even have to worry about ex parte contacts, do we?
 Not on a legislative matter, no. Okay. So we'll just turn this over to our team, our staff, and our guests and take it away.
 Thank you, Mayor. This is Troy Doss with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm the project manager for the zone change, which in itself is actually pretty minor. But I think the project itself is important enough that we wanted to make sure that Chair Deborah Kofori could come and introduce it to you. And we have the project manager from the county as well here, J.D. Deschamps. So I'll turn it over to the chair first. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome, a great Lebanese-American. That's right. You were just praised. In absentia, you were praised. And I heard some...
 Another Kofori mentioned as well. Thank you for that. I'm Deborah Kofori, Chair of Multnomah County, and I want to commend you and congratulate you on your foresight in this new Portlanders Commission. I think it sounds wonderful, and I believe that it will benefit not just the city but the county as well and all of our residents, and I want to thank you for putting that through. I'm really glad you said that because there was a request, actually, to put into the ordinance that it was going to advise other jurisdictions, and we thought we should ask first. So...
 Certainly, as capacity allows, we'd be happy to partner with you on that. Definitely. I know our health department has a smaller version but a similar commission that helps guide their efforts. And it's just recently started, but it's been really amazing. And it's translated into our budget that we just passed this morning.
 some of the members on that commission are on the Citizen Budget Advisory Committee, and they totally revamped the way that they offered advice to us this year and were instrumental in getting some new policies and programs in our budget reflecting the needs of our immigrant and refugee communities as well as all of our communities of color. So I think there's a lot that can come from this group.
 but today i'm here to talk about a really exciting topic the downtown courthouse um i'm as you know i've been a proponent of this uh during my time as county commissioner now as county chair and we are so close um we are farther along than now than we've ever been in the 40 years since we've acknowledged the need to replace the courthouse we've completed our site selection process
 facility programming, we retained a design team, and we have a commitment of millions of dollars of funding from both the city, sorry, from this county and from the state of Oregon. And in the division of labor between the county and the city around the area of public safety, the county provides justice services.
 Therefore, we look to the city to be a real strong partner with us on this important endeavor. And in order to break ground on our new courthouse on Southwest Madison and Southwest First in September of this year, which we plan to do, we need the city to approve the increased height on our site.
 to 325 feet before the central city update is implemented. The height increase was included in the comprehensive plan approved by the City Council in 2015, but the new height limit is not yet written into city code. The increased height will allow our new courthouse to house all of the functions that are in the current courthouse, including offices for the district attorney and four high-volume courts, traffic and such that you all utilize.
 We plan to have 17 floors with 44 courtrooms. The programming follows the recommendations of a planning and space report prepared for us in 2014 by the National Center for State Courts. On April 26th, the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission voted 7-0 in favor of the height increase, and I'm here today to ask you to approve the zoning amendment.
 Thank you very much. Deborah, I just want to ask you, given that this seems like a crucial change to allow you to move forward, we're under a crushing deadline, is there anything in the relationship between the city and the county that's unresolved that we should think about before we cast a vote? No.
 I don't think I need to remind you that those four high-volume courtrooms that will be in the new courthouse are lucrative for city coffers, shall I say. And I will tell you that I recently was in the courthouse in a jury room meeting with the judge on something unrelated, and I was reminded how dated the facilities are and how in need of an upgrade we are for our courthouse. So it was eye-opening.
 It's going to be a beauty and functional. Thank you. Thank you. My name is J.D. Deschamps. I'm the project manager from Oklahoma County for facilities and property management. And just like you said, the existing courthouse is seismically deficient and functionally obsolete. And I'm mostly here just to answer any questions. And I immigrated from Canada. Okay. Questions? Issues to raise?
 Mayor, can I just get a clarification? Is there more presentation? We've already approved this height increase as part of the West Quad, right? We approved a plan that contains it. Did I get that right, Troy? And so what we're doing now is just essentially moving the process forward a little more quickly. Yeah, Troy will walk us through that. To codify what we've already said should be in the plan. Is that right? Yes. I'll give you a very brief presentation, and I'll walk you through that if you like.
 The site, as you're probably aware, is right there at First and Madison. It's the Hawthorne Bridgehead. Most people know it because it has the VQ added, Variable Quandary. The site is known as Block 8 in the Portland Edition. It currently has a height of 200 feet. As you noted, during the West Quadrant Planning Commission and Sustainability Commission and Council approved a concept to increase the heights of that bridgehead at 325. Going forward, the current...
 plan district before the adoption of Central City 2035 would be adopted just for that block to allow a height of 325. In the next phase of Central City 2035, which should be coming to council early next year, we would be doing the rest of the height increases, and this is what that map would look like. So this is really in the middle of that one block that would be 325 at the Hawthorne Bridgehead. As noted, the...
 structure will be 17 stories and usually 17 stories could be accommodated in less than 325 feet but it's unusual for a courthouse because of all the programming that goes into it you have floor to ceiling heights on average and my understanding is that the lower average of 18 feet and that's what's being proposed here so just it's the virtue of the courtroom space itself that's really driving the height in this case
 We've done some shadow analysis. It shows that our typical shadow analysis in the city of Portland for downtown would be at 3 p.m. on April 21st. It typically would look at shading the bridgehead itself. We took it two months forward just to see what it looked like at the solstice, and it was similar but not quite as impactful. But either way, the impact was pretty low on the park itself.
 And with that, the Planning Commission is asking that the Council recommend that we go ahead and update Map 5103 of the Portland Zoning Code, Central City Plan District, to allow for that height now in advance of the Central City 35 plan coming forward. Could you go back to the height map, please? Yes.
 Yes, that one. So when you come back, I will be asking why we're not increasing the heights on the two lots between this site. We've got the 352 lots back. I'm, as you know, very fond of the...
 policy that says we step down to the river. And so because we've got that, this is why I supported this particular height increase as part of the West Quadrant Plan, even though I didn't support some of the others, that it does step down from the 350. I'm not, and this isn't under discussion today, I'm just kind of putting a marker down. And we'll want to know why wouldn't we put the ones behind it to either 350, well, to 350, in fact.
 Can I just ask a policy question? Because I remember recently actually talking to John Russell about this, and he waxed poetic. But I'd be interested in the staff level explanation as to why, as part of our planning, we think we can accommodate more height in the bridgeheads. Why should we or why can't we? Why should we? Because we're affirmatively doing it in our planning. And we've made a judgment that it's consonant with good planning. And just remind us why. Okay.
 I'm going to probably call it Joe Zender for that one because he was more engaged in the West Quadrant Plan than I was. We had the debate and we agreed to do this. Since we're taking it up again and we have a complete record, Joe, would you remind us why we believe that with the bridgeheads there is a …
 good policy argument for more height than we would otherwise have. Yes, Joe Zender from Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Several reasons. One is even from the 80s plan, there was a notion of marking the bridgeheads as a signifier coming into the central city or their importance there. And so height is a move that does that. Okay.
 But also, since the 80s plan as well, we've been trying to find a way to bring activity to the waterfront in NATO and actually into Waterfront Park. And so these bridgeheads, when you combine
 The land that's available there for redevelopment, this urban design principle of them potentially is a good location for height and a marker. And the ability to bring development down to NATO and the waterfront here while preserving the rest, because a lot of the waterfront is in historic districts. That's why we focused on these bridgeheads. We focused on them both on the east side and the west side.
 Here there's this additional public benefit of getting a courthouse that's fully integrated with all the services under one roof. So it sounds compelling to me. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. Anything else you want to add, Troy? No, that would be it. Any other questions for the team? Okay. Thank you very much. Let's see who else wants to testify on this item, please. Mr. Russell would like to testify. Okay. Anyone else? Feel free to join him.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, members of council. As one of the few people remaining in the city in advance of the weekend, I'd like to testify in favor of the county's height increase. I did serve as a member of the West Quadrant Plan, and as you have been told, this was something that we recommended a long time ago, and it's been ratified by the Planning Commission itself.
 so the issue i think is just one of timing it's not whether whether the this particular site will get the height increase it's when and i understand the compelling reasons for the timing well you may be one of the few people remaining in the city but let the record note that there are at least some elected officials judges and other public employees still around what do you think of the design
 I think it's gorgeous. And, you know, I sat in. And you have a particular interest in that district since you have some buildings. Yeah, I own property close by, but I also was a member of the committee that looked at revamping the existing courthouse. And courthouses are extraordinarily complex because none of the three entities, the jury, the members of the public, and the judges can ever mix anything.
 So you've got this extraordinarily complex circulation system, particularly with the elevators. They're very, very complex buildings to do. And I understand that extra height helps that, but tough to do. Yeah, good point. Thank you very much.
 All right. Judge Waller is not going to resist. I can't because I want to simply say, Nan Waller, presiding judge in Multnomah County, thank you for consideration of the height increase that will allow us to build a new courthouse that we've been trying to build after 28 reports and lots of angst over whether the earth was going to hold, to build a new courthouse. And it is now more than a glimmer in our eye. We're looking forward to the groundbreaking process
 The plans are beautiful. They are functional. They will be inviting to the public. We see this building really as standing as a monument to the principles of procedural justice that the court has embraced. The people will come into the building. It will be transparent on the outside, which is important for a justice system.
 It will be accessible, which is important to our public. There will be people who will understand the building when they come in because there will be good way finding throughout the building. The courtrooms are being designed so that people can not only hear and understand, but they will be not feeling like they are too closed in and too close, and the very emotional dramas that sometimes play out in courthouses.
 and we will have all of the amenities that we need so that the public will feel safe. We are building a legal resource center to help self-represented people, which is an enormous issue for the courts. Many people cannot afford lawyers. We are building a legal resource center
 and they are lost in the courthouse right now and we want them to have the tools if we can't provide lawyers and we'll provide the tools facilitators mediators electronic forms so that they can at least have a fair shake in making their way through the courthouse so we are the city is a good partner to the court and
 And in that, we are greatly appreciative. And I want to say thank you to all of you for what you've done. We are your municipal court, and we need a safe place to conduct the business of the community, the city, and the county and the state. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, then this will simply move forward for a vote next week, correct? Okay. Excuse me, it will be due next? Also, right? Yes.
 Sorry, it's the 8th. The 8th. So this will be just carried forward to second reading and vote. No further testimony on the 8th. So we'll close the hearing and schedule it for a vote then. Thank you very much. We're adjourned until next week.