Everybody? Good morning. Here we are. Good morning. Ready to get to work?
 Good morning and welcome to the May 27th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Seltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We're going to start with communications items and then go to a couple of times certain items. So we'll deal with council procedure a little later, but first we'll hear from individual citizens who've signed up to speak, starting with number 517.
 Request of Catherine Smith to address counsel regarding Portland Police. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Catherine Smith, and I'm addressing this mainly to Mayor Hales, but it's good for the Portland City Commissioners to hear this also. Excuse me, can we have regular order? I don't think we allow people to stand and cover. You can't do this, okay? Go have a seat. Have a seat. Anywhere in the auditorium, you're welcome to have a seat, okay? All right.
 Yeah, back behind the columns if you want to film. Thank you. Okay, go ahead, please. Dear Mayor Hales and Portland City Commissioners, I am back here again because those same Tigard cops, about eight to ten of them, are still shooting me with microwave, ultrasound, voice-to-skull command weapons, lead-in machine sleep deprivation remotely 20 to 24 hours a day for more than three years.
 and several years before that, but shooting me less often. They tell me every day they shoot my son when he's sleeping with these to give him cancer. Their intent is obviously to murder us. My ex-tigered neighbor lady participates in this by telling them also, those tired cops, where to shoot us daily or how to harass us.
 Since I have lots of experience with being tortured, burned, etc. with these and reporting it, I know that the way to stop these assaults is to report it to the police. They collect evidence, can arrest and prosecute. The other people that your city employees have referred me to don't have authority to
 to make the Portland cops do their duty to protect me and my son. They mainly shoot me in Portland because I live here. It sure seems like some of your city employees don't want Portland police to have anything to do with my case because some of them, cops, purposely ignore and suppress my evidence and reports. And that is called hindering prosecution.
 Also, by not doing anything to stop those Tigard cops, they are facilitating these attempted murders. Why would you do that? Why would they do that, you might wonder. As I said before, some of the crooked cops don't want the public to know they have these kinds of weapons that can work through the walls and be set up remotely to use on anyone they choose, including kids.
 Some of the Tigard cops said that they harass lots of kids out of school and that they are the main reason for Oregon's very low graduation rate. This may sound very unusual to some of you, but if you know what kind of harassment and trauma that some of the Tigard cops enjoy, you will know that this is a very good possibility.
 The Oregon cops also have signed a confidentiality agreement to not discuss these weapons with the public.
 but Mayor Hales, you are the police commissioner, and so they can discuss these weapons and my case with you. Somebody is giving you very bad and negligent advice, it seems, telling you to not talk to Portland Police directly, but they rather refer me to IPR, Tiger Police Department, City of Tigard, Project Respond, or Portland's Women's Crisis Line. And at least one of your city attorneys, I've heard, is telling Cindy Race, your assistant, to not let me have a meeting with you."
 With no justification. Catherine, you're out of time. Thank you very much. You take care. Oh. Okay. Next item, please. Could I ask you this last question? No. Can you please tell me your legal reason for not addressing this issue? You're out of time. Thank you. You don't want to answer it. Thank you very much. Okay. You're avoiding my question. 518, request of Neil Walker to address council regarding PTSD recovery progress and current housing. He informed us he will not be speaking today. Okay.
 Okay. 519. Request of Jacob Lewin to address council regarding parking enforcement. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you. I haven't been here in a while. I really like the new vegetable garden downstairs. My name is Jacob Lewin. I live at 601 Northeast Hazelfern Place in Portland.
 On Thursday, April 9th, just before 7 p.m., I interacted with a parking enforcement officer on Northwest Davis near Broadway. I had pulled into a loading zone at 655 with the intention of staying with the car until 7 in case a truck needed the space. I understand that I did not have the right to park there at that time.
 Within seconds, a parking enforcement officer approached and I asked politely if I could stay in the space. He said because I was arguing with him, he was going to give me a ticket. I was not arguing. I told him that if he had simply told me I couldn't stay, I would have left and said nothing more. He then launched into a condescending tirade saying, how could he arbitrarily let someone stay in that space? Should it be just because I was white? Yes.
 I said that if he was looking for criteria to use his discretion, he could consider it was 6.55. There was a vacant parking space just ahead. And then if I stayed with the car and a truck came, I could move and make way. He then said it would be illegal for a truck to stop and wait for me to leave.
 I then rolled my eyes. It's true, I rolled my eyes. And he said, Now, you're rolling your eyes. And said he might issue me a double warning, whatever that is, and that I better be careful because as soon as an officer spotted my car out of compliance in any way, I'd get a ticket. He then said he was a decent person and I could become one too. I said thank you and left and he stomped off. Well, understand that when you give people the power to levy fines, it can go to their heads and their arrogance emerges.
 The job description calls for the ability to remain calm and professional during verbal abuse and threats, but there was no verbal abuse from me. The officer was clearly trying to intimidate me. What does the city do when it's hiring to make sure the candidate can remain calm and professional? Portland's been growing fast. Maybe we're losing our civility, but I don't want to let it go easily. This also would apply to all the other city positions where public interaction is necessary and where the employee has a measure of power.
 It would also be a good time to review how hiring is done for parking enforcement since there is now the possibility of a new wave of hiring coming. Thank you, Jacob. Mr. Lewin, can you say again exactly where and when that occurred so I can try to figure out who is working that beat? Sure. Thursday, April 9th, 655, Northwest Davis, near Broadway. Near Broadway. Yeah. Thank you. Thanks very much. Appreciate you bringing this to our attention. Thank you. Okay. 520.
 Request of Reverend Margaret Hepzibah to address counsel regarding truth and justice. Ms. Hepzibah, are you here? Yes.
 Okay, I guess she's not here. So then we'll move on to the regular calendar So let me just make some basic comments here about rules of procedure Purpose of City Council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business Preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before this council public is welcome to attend council meetings during the meeting there'll be time limited opportunities for public comment on various agenda items and
 Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a council calendar item must address the matter being considered on that item. If you're here to testify, please just state your name for the record. We don't need your address, but if you are a lobbyist registered under the city's code, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony and let us know what organization that you're representing if you're here on behalf of an organization.
 unless otherwise informed each community member will have three minutes to speak in front of the council at two minutes and 30 seconds you'll hear a beep and a light will flash on the box before you at three minutes you'll hear four beeps and the lights will flash again that's the time for the next person to speak we ask that you respect the time limits so that there's time to hear from everyone who signed up to speak if you have handouts please give them to our council clerk and she'll distribute them to council members
 Any conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example shouting during other people's presentations or interrupting testimony, will not be allowed. Please, if you're interested in showing your support for a fellow citizen who is here to speak on an item, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. If you disagree, you're free to do the opposite as well, but we're trying to create an atmosphere in this chamber where everyone has their say and where politeness is observed.
 This is a warning that anyone disrupting that process may be escorted from council chambers and excluded from City Hall. Lastly, if needed, the council will be taking a half-hour break at either 12 or 1230, depending on our schedule, and I'll announce that before we take the break.
 With that, let's move on into the calendar to item, let's take the consent calendar. I don't believe we have anything withdrawn from the consent calendar. Is that right? No members want to remove anything. So a roll call on the consent calendar is printed, please. Bish. Aye. Seltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Item 521.
 I, 21, declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk and stormwater improvements from Northwest Raleigh Street to Northwest Upshur Street in the Northwest 20th Avenue Local Improvement District. Mr. Novick. Colleagues, welcome to another episode of Andrew Abbey magically solves problems.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner Novick. Good morning, Mayor Hales and City Commissioners, the Andrew Abbey Local Improvement District Administrator. Pleasure to be here with you this morning. Carla, can we go ahead and switch to the presentation?
 So this is an aerial view of the Conway properties in northwest Portland near the US-30 ramp. This picture was taken about 2012. I don't have an exact date on that picture, but this just gives you a general aerial overview of where our project is located.
 This is the area of Conway properties that underwent a master planning effort over the past few years and Conway worked very closely with the Northwest District Association on developing that master plan and also of course worked with PBOT and ODOT and other partners. So the blocks here that you see identified here are the blocks that are going to be redeveloped. These blocks for the most part are currently surface parking lots. This LID is
 One of relatively few that we have that have 100% petition support. It's also the first street LID that I've brought to council in northwest Portland since the northwest 13th Avenue LID a little less than 10 years ago. And I'll mention something briefly on that in a minute. One thing I would just call your attention to on the LID boundary is a little bit complicated.
 gerrymandered here is not the intent of it was not to make it look like a Heartfully mastered congressional district, but rather the scope of the improvements is broader than just Northwest 20th Avenue We're also looking at making some improvements around the freeway frontage roads and most importantly we're looking to do two things We're looking to reconstruct Northwest Thurman Street between 20th and 21st avenues currently. That's the dead end Street and
 And we're also looking to make some improvements to Northwest 23rd Avenue south of Vaughn Street. So this is the objective of the project. And the idea for this project originated at the neighborhood level from the Northwest District Association. And they're here to speak today.
 So what we currently have when people drive to northwest Portland, there's a really bad weave on Interstate 405 as you come off the Fremont Bridge and you head on 405 southbound. And so what we've been finding is that some of the people who otherwise would just simply stay on 405 to, say, exit at Everett Gleason or Burnside Cooch,
 What they often do is they take the US 30 ramp up here to Northwest 23rd and Vaughn, where they currently make a legal U-turn. They come back on US 30 to get back on 405, and that puts them in the right lane to take either the Everett Gleason or the Burnside Cooch exit. So the red line is...
 is where some of that traffic is going today. And then the green line shows the new circulation that we're looking to add with this project, where instead, people coming up the US 30 ramp can come up to 23rd and Vaughn. And if they're trying to get into the Northwest District, instead of making a U-turn or a left turn at 23rd, they can make a right turn on 23rd, make a right on Wilson. And you can see where that green line is the new Northwest 20th Avenue connection gives them a new way to get into the district.
 So here's a real-life example of what the traffic looks like coming on the US 30 ramp. You can see all the cars backed up there on the left side of the freeway waiting to make that U-turn at 23rd and Vaughn. And that will be eliminated with this project. And then here's another close- That will no longer be allowed? Left turn will be eliminated? The U-turn will be allowed. The left turn will still be allowed, but the U-turn will be eliminated. Thank you for allowing me to clarify that. And then this is just another view of that new connection shown in green there, and you can see where the Conway site is.
 So what's important to note is this is not just simply adding vehicle system capacity, but we're also adding a multimodal connection. So what we're planning to do is to add bike lane to this new Northwest 20th Avenue connection underneath US 30 and also build sidewalks with ornamental street lighting and make it an attractive environment not only for people to drive, but also to walk and to bike as well.
 So here's a financial recap of what the LID looks like. Keep in mind that the costs that I'm presenting to you this morning don't include right-of-way costs, which we will most likely be adding into the LID formation ordinance to come to you this summer. So the project costs exclusive of right-of-way is $4.3 million.
 So, we are offering, PBOT is offering SDC credits to Conway equal to 25.7554% of project cost or about 1.7 million with the ineligible portion being 2.6 million. So, the best way to think about this is Conway gets roughly a one-quarter credit on their LID, yet they're generating one-quarter of the usage of the increased vehicle capacity. So, rather than getting a three-quarter credit.
 for the trips that will be served by Northwest 20th Avenue to properties other than Conway. They're getting roughly a one-fourth credit. What I wanted to show you here is what the existing building square footage is, about 331,000 square feet. As of 2012, and this is subject to change, but as of 2012, as they were going through their master planning process, they were looking to add about 2 million square feet of building space.
 So if that amount holds, then upon future development, Conway would peak at about 2,338,000 square feet. I looked at a recent sale nearby of a relatively new building built about two years ago that sold, I believe, last year. That was about $265 a square foot. So if we were to apply that number to Northwest 20th when these surface parking lots get redeveloped,
 we could be on the cusp of these transportation improvements enabling $532 million worth of private development in northwest Portland. That's not a prediction, but that's just simply giving an example of what we might be looking at.
 And then finally what I wanted to recap for you this morning is less than 10 years ago we were here closing out the Northwest 13th Avenue Phase 2 LID which is seven blocks away from this LID at Northwest 20th and Raleigh.
 So a couple years ago, I worked with PDC to ascertain the value that the good quality infrastructure that we built added to the Pearl District. Remember, this Northwest 13th Avenue is one of the very last areas to develop in the Pearl District. PDC contributed $861,305 towards that LID.
 Over nine years, the real market value along Northwest 13th Avenue went from $49 million to $228 million. So there was a $178 million increase in real market value along Northwest 13th Avenue with that $861,000 PDC investment. So the payoff that we got with that PDC investment was $207 of real market value.
 increase for every dollar that PDC invested. So I'm confident that we'll see equally impressive results with the PBOT investment in the S2C credits. PDC is not funding this project.
 That wraps up my presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have this morning. Thank you very much. Questions for Andrew? So if you eliminate the U-turn, won't that make congestion on 405 more difficult for people who want to get to Everett rather than Long?
 Well, we don't think so because, and I'll let ODOT speak to this a little bit more in detail, but what you have right now is you have cars coming over the Fremont Bridge that add to congestion on US-30 as they wait to make the U-turn. And then when they come back around, they're aggravating their congestion as the people that go the correct way on 405 try to do the weave to get over to the exits.
 So I'm going to let ODOT speak to that in a little bit more detail, but we think that eliminating the perverse incentive to make that U-turn coupled with, most importantly, that right-turn movement underneath the freeway really gives people a third option to get into Northwest in addition to the two existing exits that we have now. So if there's no more questions, I know we have some folks here to testify. Okay. Do you have invited testimony, Commissioner? I know there's folks from ODOT and the property owners in the neighborhood here, so.
 I don't think we formally did, but I think it would be great to hear from ODOT first. Okay. Thanks very much, Andrew. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Hello, Mayor Hales, members of council. Thank you for the opportunity to provide this testimony before you today. My name is Shelly Romero, and I am the area manager west for ODOT Region 1.
 Some years back, ODOT and PBOT began discussing the new development and expansion of Conway in the Northwest Industrial Area, and we referred to a traffic study that was conducted by Kittleson & Associates that showed that the queues on the I-405 off-ramp onto Northwest Vaughan would dramatically increase without improvements in redistribution and recirculation of traffic by 2035.
 In part, this is because the left-hand turn lane from the off-ramp onto Northwest 23rd, or the U-turn at Northwest Thurman, lacks sufficient storage for the anticipated volume of traffic that are utilizing these facilities. So what you're seeing today is the result of an effort made by many in the development review phase, and that's really which laid the foundation for establishing this local improvement district to provide new circulation to the area where Conway is implementing their master plan.
 ODOT believes that this project has many traffic, circulation, and safety benefits. One of these benefits is that the new circulation pattern will reduce congestion at the northwest off-ramp in particular for the left-hand turn movements onto Northwest 23rd and Thurman and potentially reduce the number of rear-end crashes and backups to I-405.
 this is the second local improvement district project that odot has had the opportunity to partner up with pbot on and to make needed improvements to our transportation system several years ago odot contributed funding to the portland bureau of transportation for the northeast 97th green street local improvement district and the odot funding was used to improve a section of the i-205 shared use path where drainage was an issue
 But back to this project, one of the most exciting things about adopting this resolution today is that it reflects collaboration and cooperation and agreement with ODOT, PBOT, the developer, and the neighborhood association to address the future transportation circulation needs.
 This is a terrific example of public and private partnerships to maximize the efficiency of our existing infrastructure by redistributing traffic to the underutilized far right-hand lanes at the Northwest Vaughan off ramp. Going forward, ODOT will continue to work with PBOT to play an active role in reviewing plans and specifications and aid in the acquisition of permits to help make this a successful project.
 In closing, I want to acknowledge ODOT Region 1 planning and traffic section staff, including Abby Tayar, who's with me today, Mara Danielson, and also acknowledge PBOT staff Kurt Kruger, Bob Haley, and Andrew Abbey for their efforts. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. You know, ODOT, it really has been working effectively with us, and we just want to let you know and hope you take the message back to your colleagues at Region 1 that when you work so cooperatively with us on these detailed fine-grained projects in the urban environment, it's very helpful to what the city is trying to accomplish, and so noted and appreciated here. Thank you. Will do.
 Could you further respond to my question regarding the merge on 405 from people coming out of the district? And I would never have thought to have taken that ramp and do the U-turn. I have remarked upon how many people are stacked up doing that, so that's interesting. That's the reason. But what I've experienced is difficulty getting out of the far right lanes and onto I-5 South. Sure. I'm going to have Avi help me out with that one. Thank you.
 Morning. Morning. Again, my name is Avitar. I'm with ODOT Development Review, a late engineer. The issue is basically redistributing the trips, I guess, from the off ramp. Rather than utilizing the left turn pocket with the short space provided for the storage, this is taking some of those trips to the right turn lane and basically circulating with the three rights to get to more or less the same area. As far as the U-turn trips,
 Kittleson and associate traffic study indicated that there's a lot of shortcuts that people in 405 trips coming southbound basically rather than using 405 to continue using the off ramp on 405 and van exit to make the u-turn and come back to 405 and exit possibly saving time or cutting short their storage or waiting in line to basically approach those exits.
 But then if those people now decide that doing a longer route is no longer worth their effort, wouldn't there then be more people staying on 405 and make that spaghetti junction merge even more difficult?
 Well, I'm not sure exactly how long they were trying to save or realistically whether they're saving time by utilizing the U-turn. But in reality, basically the Q on the left turn would be reduced by providing the right turn lane and the recirculation to the right.
 finding that the U-turn is not servicing, and potentially if they're trying to get to Burnside, they'd be able to do it through the right-turn lane as opposed to the U-turn and getting off in Burnside.
 I understand how it is better for the Northwest District, and it solves the problem at Vaughan and 23rd. What I'm concerned about is on 405, if all of those cars now stay on 405 and they're trying to merge to get off at the Cooch or Everett Street exits, that's going to make it even more difficult.
 I'm not sure exactly what the delay was in terms of those trips, not staying on the queue to eventually get exit from 405 and utilizing this U-turn. It's not going to improve it necessarily, as you indicate, but I don't think it will be any different than what it has been in the past. Have you modeled that? I think Kittleson is the one who modeled it, and I don't have the result in front of me. Wow.
 One thing we will be doing is ODOT is going to be closing that. So when you do the U-turn, that Thurman offshoot, and I know that some of the movements in traffic make that U-turn movement to take that Thurman offshoot. And for safety reasons, we are going to be closing that offshoot onto Thurman. So any trips that were generated from that U-turn movement would be eliminated. That's not my concern. My concern is on 405. Right. So what's – that's –
 a very difficult stretch of road to navigate. Sure. Is there any thought of what's going to happen there? You know, I think what I would need to, just to be honest, I need to get back to you on that. So why don't I note your question, and we'll get you an answer back. Thank you very much. Thanks very much.
 Thank you. Okay. Other questions? Thank you very much. Appreciate you both being here. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. And others that would like to speak on this item that are here? I have five other people signed up to testify. The first three are Jean Harrison, David Davis, and Craig Boratz. Good morning and welcome back to City Hall. Good morning.
 Hello, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jean Harrison. I'm here representing the NWDA Transportation Committee. I'm the chair of that committee.
 Members of our committee were closely with Conway and the City to look at how we might best solve the problem of 23rd and Vaughan, because we knew that traffic would increase there. And actually, some of our more creative members came up with the idea of the jug handle.
 While it might not be intuitive, it does make it a lot easier for people to navigate once they know what to do. I think signage is going to be really important.
 What I wanted to do first and I forgot is to thank Andrew Abbey for taking on the LID project and Although he says he's been working on it a long time To me this has gone very smoothly and very quickly and we're really looking forward to having Northwest 20th built as a complete street with bike lanes and with sidewalks. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning. Welcome. I
 Good morning, Mayor Hales. Good to see you, commissioners. I'm Craig Barretts with Conway, the property owner. And I'm really here to thank everybody, Andrew, Rich Eisenhower, all the folks at PBOT that worked on this, ODOT, and, of course, our development team and the Northwest Neighborhood Association. So it was really definitely a collaborative effort, which you all heard about.
 so I'm excited to get this done. It's one of the next phases in the Conway Master Plan, and we've got some really exciting things coming on stream, which you've probably heard about, and the new seasons opens up in August, and that's an exciting time as well. While not being a traffic engineer, I can try to address your question, Commissioner Fritz. Just from experience, I think that...
 If people are doing that U-turn and then trying to get off at Everett or Burnside, with the free right-hand turn off of the 405 down Wilson, they have access to 19th as well as 20th, and they can shoot up 19th to get access to Everett and Burnside from that angle. So I think that might free up some of the pressure that you might just see on 405. Okay. Questions? Thank you both very much. Thanks. Thanks.
 Good morning. Did you sign up? Yep, David Davis. Come on up. You do need to speak on this particular item, and have a seat, please. I will. So, um...
 This is in... Put your name in the record and speak on this item, please. My name is David Davis. Thank you. Go ahead. And this is in regard to ODOT, right? Well, ODOT's running a lot of these homeless raids. No, no, this is in regard to... You guys have people picking up needles... Sir, sir, excuse me. Excuse me, I'm going to interrupt your testimony and tell you you're being disruptive. With landscaping gloves. You're being disruptive. Let me give you your instructions. Are you going to listen? Your instructions are to speak to this local improvement district and only to this item, sir.
 If you have testimony. Okay, sir, you're out of order. You've been warned. You're going to be removed from the chambers. Go ahead. Okay. No, you're going to go, sir. Go. Go. Okay. Sorry, folks. Anyone else would like to speak on this item? Come on up. I show two more people, Tom DiCiara and Ron Walters. Yes.
 Good morning. Good morning, sir.
 I'm Tom . We are developing several parcels within the Conway Master Plan, the New Seasons Project, which we'll deliver later this summer. That also includes some apartments. And we are currently working on three additional blocks to the north, which will contain additional housing, retail, and an office conversion from one of the existing Conway buildings. So we're pleased that the LAD has kind of kept pace with development, which I think proceeded probably quicker than a lot of people realized or expected since the Master Plan was adopted.
 So there's a lot going on today, and there's a lot that will be happening over the coming years. So having these improvements in place roughly coinciding with the delivery of the additional phase
 could time well. And also just to comment a little bit on our experience with construction on the first projects, we've been using the jug handle route to route our construction traffic. In partnership with the NWDA, we did a lot of planning to mitigate traffic going through the neighborhood. So our construction track has been using that route. So while it is a little counterintuitive today, it's actually worked really, really effectively to get trucks in and out of the district without going down 23rd. And that, I think, should not be understated when that
 that route becomes more visible and signed, it's going to provide a great alternative for people to get into the district. And then just a final thought, I just want to commend
 Conway for agreeing to shoulder the burden of this LID and be the bank essentially until the individual parcels are developed. I mean, we're shouldering our portion of it for the projects that we're doing, but we could have gone through a much longer process and expanded the contributors to the district, and the fact that Conway has agreed to do that despite only contributing a share of the demand is something that should be stated for the record, and I think that speaks to Conway's commitment to the neighborhood. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Ron Walters. I'm here on behalf of the Northwest District Association. In the interest of time, I'll simply say that we're pleased to support the LID and work with all of the participants and the city to have a smooth implementation that will improve the Northwest District area. Thank you. Thank you both. Anyone else on this item?
 So, Commissioner Fritz, you had a couple questions. Are you content to adopt the resolution and get follow-up on those later? Yes, thank you for asking. Mayor, I had one question, if I could pose it, of either Andrew or the commissioner in charge. And I'm just trying to understand one detail. If you're on 23rd and you want to get on 405, there would now be a signal?
 There is now a signal. There is currently a signal at 23rd and Vaughan. There's a signal, but there's a signal and a sign that says no right on red. If you're on 23rd and you want to turn right and get on 405. And so there's a sign that says no right turn on red. And does that change?
 You know, I'm not a traffic engineer either, and I'm beginning to think we should have the traffic engineer here today, and we can certainly bring her back in four weeks. My assumption would be that once the U-turn goes away, that...
 There might be some opportunity to remove that. Do you want to add to that, Jill? I can answer that question. This is government in the open. This is very good. I'm land use counsel for Conway. I'm with Lane Powell, and I am also not a traffic engineer, but I'm really familiar with the project. And that will become a free right. Because of the elimination of the U-turn, there's no reason to have this signal now. So Mike Houck has raised his thumb. He lives in the neighborhood. The early polling on this seems to be very strong. Yeah.
 And I just make an observation. To quote Shakespeare, the no right on red was more honored in the breach than the observance. And I noticed on 23rd that most everybody made that right turn. And I think the most, Mike, how? No confessions needed. No confessions needed. Get a lawyer if you're going to follow up on this one.
 I think the most sympathetic explanation is it's a very busy intersection. There's a lot of lights and signs, and I think it's perfectly reasonable for someone just to assume if no one's around and they can make that right, they would. If by eliminating the U-turn, that becomes a right turn as a right, that actually has some other therapeutic benefits because that street often gets backed up because people can't make a right turn on a red. So I think that's a plus, plus it...
 ends a practice which is currently probably more illegal than legal at that intersection. Absolutely. Good point. Thank you. Appreciate the traffic engineering answer. Sure. Mayor, if I can just make one quick final comment. I've been working with Craig Barretts and with Jill since 2012. This has been a very long, complicated negotiation, and I just particularly want to tip my hat to both of them for finding a way to put this project together.
 Thank you. Good work. Okay. Any further council discussion before we take action on the resolution? Roll call then, please. Fish? It's an excellent presentation. Andrew, you do some of the best work in the city, and we're very lucky to have you on the team. Steve, thank you for your leadership on this, and I'm very pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Looks like a good project and a lot of good development to occur. Aye. Novick? Aye.
 Thank you, Andrew. Thank you, Shelley. Thank you, Craig. Thanks, NWDA. Hi. Ritz. It's really good to see the neighborhood and the developers and the city working together on this. I thank everybody for your participation. I was on the planning commission in 2003 when the Northwest District Plan was adopted, and this intersection was a key limiting factor. So this LID looks like it will –
 take care of that problem. I do remain concerned that it may increase the problems on 405 for people who are not trying to go anywhere near the district, just trying to get home or get to somewhere else. So I look forward to hearing more from ODOT about monitoring of that situation and potentially addressing that issue on the freeway. But that's a different question from this LID and I really appreciate all the work that's been done. Hi. Hey, Els.
 Well, congratulations, Commissioner Novick, on a great project. Congratulations, Commissioner Fish, for I think maybe for the first time in this council connecting Shakespeare with traffic engineering. Extra credit for that. And you've set the bar very high. This project from the beginning has really been a model of cooperation between the property owner slash developer and the neighborhood. And I appreciate that.
 The work on the master plan itself was long and difficult and relied on a lot of goodwill and a lot of mutual adjustment. And it shows here in what we've heard in the council chambers today on this implementing process.
 detail, albeit this project's a pretty big detail, but an implementing detail of a master plan that, again, I think has been a real model of how it can be done. So I want to credit everyone involved, Craig, you and your team, and the NWDA for working their way towards the redevelopment of a big area of land in a city that has a lot of redevelopment going on in a neighborhood that's the densest in the city. So it's a pretty impressive feat of civic...
 coordination and cooperation and again special thanks to ODOT for working effectively with the city on their piece of the picture so this is a great project Andrew once again well done I yes yes I was gonna do just that I think we got five minutes until until we are on back on schedule so thank you all we're gonna move to item 531 and then back to the grant high school item all
 531, proclaim May 27th through June 1, 2015 to be 28th annual Great Blue Heron Week. I think Mr. Houck is still in the chamber. Okay, we'll wait just a moment to begin this because there are a couple of people in particular who are pretty passionate about this. We surprised him.
 Our fearless leader, Bob Salinger. Okay. All right. Let's go ahead and do item 532, and we'll vote on that in 534 while we're waiting for folks to come back. 532, revise residential solid waste and recycling collection rates and charges effective July 1, 2015. Roll call vote, please.
 Saltzman? Aye. Oh, I didn't see in the room. Fish? Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, now I think the cast is assembled. Let's go back to 531, please. 531, proclaim May 27 through June 1, 2015 to be the 28th Annual Great Blue Heron Week.
 While both our feathered and non-feathered witnesses are appearing, I'll read this proclamation and turn it over to them. Whereas the Great Blue Heron is a majestic symbol of the City of Portland's efforts to restore, protect, and sustain ecologically healthy habitats for fish and wildlife and for the enjoyment of citizens of Portland and throughout the region, and whereas Great Blue Heron Week represents an opportunity for the City of Portland to recommit its efforts to the natural environment by celebrating past successes and future challenges,
 and whereas the adoption of a comprehensive plan update, central city plan, and climate action plan creates the need to develop and implement a new generation of innovative green infrastructure programs, and whereas the Portland Harbor Superfund process is reaching its final stages, providing an unparalleled opportunity to restore the Willamette River to health and to reconnect the community to the river,
 And whereas the City of Portland is an active partner in the Intertwine Alliance, collaborating with more than 113 alliance partners to create the Intertwine, a world-class system of parks, trails, and natural areas for the Portland-Vancouver metropolitan region.
 And whereas the Portland area residents have engaged in an effort to better understand great blue herons and the health of our rivers and streams through a six-year citizen science rookery monitoring project led by the Audubon Society of Portland that involved over 40 volunteers contributing nearly 600 hours and collected baseline information to help gauge heron health in the region. And whereas the City of Portland is dedicated to ensuring that all of its citizens have access to nature where they live, work, and play,
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 27th to June 1st, 2015 to be 28th Annual Great Blue Heron Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. So thank you all for your advocacy. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of City Council. Thank you for having us here to celebrate the 29th Annual Great Blue Heron Week. With me today are Joe Leibazite, who is Audubon's Avian Conservation Programs Manager, and he'll be talking a little bit about great blue heron monitoring, and Mike Houck from the Urban Green Spaces Institute, who will read a poem by William Stafford honoring the great blue heron. I'm going to give a very brief overview of sort of where we see the city environmentally and then pass it on.
 It was just about a year ago that we defeated the sewer water initiative. And I wanted to start with that because that was an important moment because I think what that really was was a referendum on the city's environmental programs. I talked before dozens of groups.
 And many of them didn't really understand it until they understood that what was at risk was the city's environmental programs. And then, overwhelming, universally, they rejected this. And that measure went down by 43 points. I think that truly was the community speaking to how much they value this city's environmental programs and environmental efforts. That was a direct threat to those programs. But I think we have an indirect threat that may even be more insidious, and that's complacency. A lot of our first-generation environmental programs are coming to an end.
 and we're replacing them with new programs, or at least we have the opportunity to do that. And I think the question really before us is, are we going to be as innovative as we've been in the past? Are we going to do the things that we need to do to protect species like the great blue heron and keep the wild in our city?
 And I think that's still an open question as things like the Comprehensive Plan, the Central City Plan, and other efforts move forward. It's our challenge, this generation's challenge now, to take the next step and build upon the work that was done 25, 30 years ago when the Great Blue Heron was first made the city's official bird. And so I want to highlight just a couple of things that I think –
 We need to be thinking about going forward. The first is green infrastructure. A lot of our green infrastructure programs are coming to an end. Greater Green is about to end completely with the end of the Friends of Trees contract. The other parts of that have ended already. We need to take the next step and develop the next generation of Greater Green programs, EcoRoos, Street Trees.
 and bioswales, green streets, and so on. We need a program that's even more innovative than the one we had previously and one that demonstrates how cost-effective this work truly is, that it saves the community money over traditional efforts. Superfund. There's nothing we're going to do that's more important to this river than addressing the end of this Superfund process and making sure that we clean up this river in a way that's healthy for humans and for wildlife.
 And I would ask you to consider creating a citizen's task force to advise the city. It's kind of a black box for the community, the way Superfund works. I think it's tremendously important the city is both a PRP but also the protector of the public trust and that the city be the one to really start to engage the community and make sure that they have a voice as well. This would be in addition to the committee that the EPA has established?
 Yeah, I think the city needs an advisory committee as well because I think the city is uniquely positioned to make sure that that public input gets into the process and that it really reflects the community. It has a dual challenge as a PRP and as the protector of the public interest. At least look for mechanisms to truly engage this community and make sure that you're hearing back from them because Superfund is a little bit of a black box.
 Number three, the climate action plan, tremendous opportunity there. That really is the biggest threat facing us environmentally, and we have a tremendous opportunity there to adopt it and implement it. And I look particularly to the opportunity to develop a fossil fuel export policy, something that's been on the radar screen in a big way recently.
 Finally, the comp plan and the central city plan, both of those have tremendous impacts in terms of our environment. One of the things I want to highlight for you is keeping the public involvement piece, especially in the most controversial areas, things like our river. I think there's a movement towards streamlining, but we need to make sure the public remains involved, engaged in the decision-making going forward, because challenges in front of us may be different than the challenges behind us.
 So I'll end by just saying thank you, because I think there's been some exciting progress in recent weeks and months, and
 First of all, the mayor's initiative on the Willamette River to create some new access and restoration. It's great to see things like the central city plan moving onto the ground implementation. And so thank you very much for that leadership. And number two, on Pembina, a controversial issue, but the community spoke very, very loudly. I think the leadership there was tremendously important and very much appreciate the mayor and council's support.
 thinking about that and the mayor's willingness to take a stand on this and say that this is inconsistent with our environmental values, a difficult thing to do. Some folks have suggested that the city shouldn't be involved in this stuff, that we can't have an impact globally. The fact that the Pope and the Canadian Consulate are paying attention shows that, in fact, what we do here truly does matter, not just locally, but globally.
 and we need to continue that leadership. So with that, I'll pass it on to Joe. Thank you. Thank you. I think that's the first time the mayor and the pope have been mentioned in the same sentence. And the Canadian consulate. Not to mention the first time the mayor from Portland and the pope are going to be in the same room. Wow. Thank you.
 I don't know if you know, but I've been invited along with 15 other mayors to meet at the Vatican with the Pope to talk about climate change. How cool is that? So I'm obviously going to accept this invitation. Yeah, just got it. It's actually the first step in a process of beautification. No chance of that. Welcome. Good morning, Mayor Hales and commission members. My name is Joe Liebesite again.
 I'm the avian conservation program manager at Audubon, and among other things, I run our science program here at Audubon. And I have a few slides, not many, just to kind of highlight our heron monitoring that we've done over a number of years. So from 2009 to 2014, we organized a citizen science effort to monitor heron rookeries. And if you don't know, herons nest in these colonial rookeries throughout the city.
 And the main point was to track trends in the rookery use and document local population changes. And through these efforts, we've established a baseline of information to help gauge how herons are doing in our area. And an important element of this is we've involved a lot of people.
 members of the public in this effort. And it helps them learn more about natural environment, develop some field biology skills, and have a lot of fun doing it. And in this first slide here, you can just see a picture of a heron rookery out at Ross Island. So just within a stone's throw of downtown here, we have wildlife and herons nesting. So we monitored a total of 39 rookeries throughout the Portland metro area over the six years.
 And over 40 volunteers, many of them returning year after year, contributed, and they logged over 600 hours of volunteer time. We also relied on some agency partners to collect data at a few sites. And each year we assigned a volunteer one or more rookeries, and we monitored them multiple times.
 And during each visit, they counted the total number of nests, number of active nests, where we know that birds were actually raising young, and the number of adult birds present in each rookery. And this is just a map showing all the different sites throughout the Portland metro region. So it's a pretty impressive sweep of sites down south of Goulet Island up to Ridgefield National Wildlife Refuge. Of course, the sites in the city, Smith and Bybee, for example. I notice Tigard City Hall is a rookery site?
 Yeah, I think there was a rookery out there at one point. Bano Creek, right? Yeah. And so from a subset of the rookeries we monitored where we had the best data, we conducted a trend analysis to look for any types of changes in the active nests and adults across the six-year effort. And you can see that little graph there with the number of adults across the time span as well as active nests.
 And our findings suggest that the population in the Portland metro area is currently stable. However, we stress that just because our findings indicate this doesn't mean that these birds are not facing threats that could lead to population declines. And herons are known to be particularly sensitive to contaminants in our environment. And Bob brought up the Superfund. And these birds are very much tied to the water. We know that they're susceptible to PCBs.
 and to lead in the environment as well, as well as to human disturbance and habitat loss. So moving forward, we continue to highlight this majestic bird to the Portland residents and encourage the public to contact Portland Audubon if they have any concerns about their favorite heron rookery.
 And on a broader perspective, getting the public engaged with herons helps connect folks with other conservation issues that Audubon is prioritizing, which Bob mentioned many of, as we work to protect wildlife and their habitats through our region as well as throughout Oregon. So thanks for your work to help protect wildlife, and we hope we'll keep doing it. Thanks. Thank you. Mr. Haug.
 Mayor Hales, Commissioners, my name is Mike Houck. I'm here today representing the Urban Green Spaces Institute. And shortly after the heron was adopted as our official city bird, I contacted William Stafford, who was the Oregon Poet Laureate at that time. And I think, you know, reflecting on some of the spiritual and philosophical bases for the policies that we're developing, I think it's important periodically for us to kind of take a little time out and think,
 more on the spiritual and the philosophical level. And I think that William Stafford just totally nailed it in terms of
 how people feel about access to nature and being able to see a great blue heron flying through downtown and coming upon their travels through the intertwined. So I'm going to just quickly read this. And by the way, last year, Mayor Hales, you suggested that I submit this to the Portland Archives, which I did do, so it's in the archives. And it's titled Spirit of Place, Great Blue Heron.
 Out of their loneliness for each other, two reeds, or maybe two shadows, lurch forward and become suddenly a life lifted from the dawn to the rain. It is the wilderness come back again, a lagoon with our city reflected in its eye.
 We live by faith in such presences. It is a test for us, that thin but real undulating figure that promises, if you keep the faith, I will exist at the edge where your vision joins the sunlight and the rain. Heads in the light, feet that go down in the mud where the truth is.
 Wonderful. Thank you all very much. We appreciate you being here. We'd love to take a photograph with the council and your proclamation and your friend, if we might. That would be great. We just want to invite you out as well for the events. We have a tremendous number of trips and things scheduled, including the Ross Island Regatta. Ah, great. Please. Take a photo. Who's got a camera? We got a camera here? I'll take it. Where's Bud Clark? That's us. Thank you.
 Thank you all very much. Thanks, Robert. Mike, I think you're getting even better at that imitation. They're almost as surprising in real life as when he does it. Thank you all very much. Okay, now we will turn to time certain item number 522. Okay.
 I proclaim May 27, 2015, to be a day of recognition for Grant High School's Constitution team. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. This is the second of a back-to-back week of National Champions at City Hall. And we're pleased once again to welcome the Grant High School family to City Hall to celebrate the accomplishments of our outstanding students.
 And today we celebrate the national champions of the Grant High School Constitution team. Let's give them a round of applause for that amazing accomplishment. We have a number of honored guests who are going to join us today, and we'd like to first invite forward Cassie Hill, Amelia Morrison, and their Constitution teacher, Jeremy Reinholdt. If you would come forward, and I'm going to, on behalf of the mayor and the council, I'm going to read the proclamation and then we're going to turn it over to you.
 But I will preface it by saying that for the past six years, I've had the honor, and I think Commissioner Novick has done this as well, to serve as a judge at the earliest stage, the regionals, for the We the People competition.
 And frankly, I do it for selfish reasons because every year when I come home after that long evening, I really feel inspired about possibilities and about the future because I get to spend an evening with high school students who are reaching for the stars through this competition. And we think we see the best of the best. And when you win the national championship, it confirms that. So it's a point of great pride for this council and our city.
 So, the mayor has issued a proclamation. It's been blown up into about 25 font, and I apologize in advance for any of the names that I mangle. Whereas, We the People, the Citizen and the Constitution is a nationally recognized civic education program and competition, and whereas the competition encourages students to display civic knowledge, skills, and dispositions,
 And whereas the Classroom Law Project, administrator of the Oregon We the People program since 1987, plays a leadership role preparing youth to become active and engaged participants in our democratic society. And whereas the Grant High School Constitution team placed first in the state We the People competition on January 17, 2015, advancing to the national competition held in Washington, D.C.,
 And whereas the Grant team placed first among 56 of the nation's best high school teams in the We the People National Finals on April 27, 2015, and whereas the Grant team's success brings honor and distinction to Portland Public Schools, to the city of Portland, to the Grant family, and to the state of Oregon, and whereas 2015 marks the fourth year in a row that a Constitution team from Portland has won the national championship.
 including that other school, Lincoln High School, in 2012 and 2014, and Lincoln High School in 2013. It's nice that you guys alternate. It's very collegial. And whereas the grant team has been supported by Grant High School Principal Carol Campbell, Constitution Team Teacher Jeremy Reinhold, Community Coaches Tim Volpert, Shelley Larkins, John Stevens, Taylor Bailey, Harry Lado, Jim Westwood, Henry Breithaupt,
 Andy Short, Mike Curtis, Mike Greenlick, Al Karpinski, Jessica Snyder, Ruth Campbell, and Larry Burke. That's a pretty good law firm. Actually, and the bench while we're at it. Family members and friends, and we'll embarrass them a little later and ask them to stand. And whereas the award-winning Grant High School team includes the following students. Keturah Antoine, Olivia Berry, Ian Michael,
 Maya Ring, Eddie Taez, Parker Brown, Abby Diebold, Fiona Redvig, Emily Hyken, Alec Mosier, Caleb Walcott, Camille Bales, Meredith Datina, Connor Johnson, Vivi K. Diamond, Amelia Morrison, Chandler Willison, Amber Burkhart,
 Mitchell Debke, Cassie Hill, Sasha Jenkins, Gunnar Olsen, Hannah Posey-Scholl, Mia Bakker, Jake Faya, Brianna Hayes, Allie Jide, Sophia Penrose, Adam Bruns, Tivoli De Grazia,
 Grace Dunbar, Libby Cocas, Charlotte Strange, and Savannah Turner. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim...
 May 27, 2015, to be a day of recognition for Grant High School's 2015 constitutional team in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Mayor, may we suspend the rules? Yes, please. Congratulations. We have two panels, and we'll start with Mr. Reinholdt. Jeremy, if you'll kick it off. Welcome. Thank you.
 mayor hales commissioners they say it takes a village to raise a child and it most certainly takes a village to raise a national championship constitution team uh 34 of the brightest and most motivated students that i've ever had the pleasure of teaching
 And we couldn't have done it without the teachers they've had in the past in the Portland Public Schools District. We couldn't have done it without their parents being supportive of them. We certainly could not have done it without the coaches, the lawyers and the judges from Portland who have donated hundreds of hours of their time volunteering to work with these kids. But at the end of the day.
 these kids did it for themselves. They worked their butts off. They cared. They wanted to learn more about our country and our government. And I'd like it if everyone here could hear from two of them right now. I'm Amelia Morrison. I'm a senior.
 I wanted to say two things about ConTeam. The first thing is we won the national championship, but the impact that it has on creating students who are aware of what's going on in the community and can read the news and really comprehend what's going on and the greater themes that are happening, it's really powerful.
 What's that created? What's that kind of created in the community for, you know, the seniors in the class is we, you know, in our free time now, we have conversations about politics and about what's going on in the country and in the world and how to solve problems in a way that, you know, I've I've never done before and I think is unusual for high school students. It's also content has also given me.
 so much direction and I was kind of lost in high school and being able to be a part of this team and have adults that really took interest in me and having given a place where I can thrive and the expectations can be high and I can do well in an area that I didn't think that maybe I didn't know enough about
 has been so impactful for me. And now I'm really interested in going to law school and maybe one day becoming a lawyer. And that's all thanks to the Constitution team. And going into college and the work that I need to do to get there, I have a huge leg up because, I mean, I have a huge amount of information now at my disposal. Thank you. Great. Hi, I'm Cassie Hill. Without repeating what my...
 Sorry. Without repeating what Amelia said, I also just feel very grateful that you're honoring us for something that we did that's just so, I don't know, it's been integral to my senior year, being who I am now. And we were both here last week for magazine, and I think we can both agree that magazine and content are both things that should be at every high school. They're things that have shaped me personally as a person and have guided me to do what I think I'm going to do in the future. And I think that's
 Something that I'd like to see in the future is more civics education for people like me and for my colleagues and everyone who just wants to be engaged. Because I think learning about something that's so important to our country is just probably one of the best things for someone my age. Because we want to go out and change the world and not be sitting at home and not knowing what's going on around us. So I think the con team has definitely been...
 an integral piece of my life. And I'd like to thank you guys for honoring us today. Thank you. We're extremely proud of all of you. And we're going to bring up two additional people real quick, and if you either make room for them, or we'll just replace them. And that's Grant Principal Carol Campbell and Classroom Law Project Leader Barbara Roast.
 Madam Principal, we have a regular standing date here at Council. You keep bringing us winners. Who are you bringing next week? I'm happy to come back every week if I can bring something. There's a lot going on at Grant, and I'm extremely proud to be part of the school that really the students take a lot of pride in everything that they do at the school. Thank you.
 The Constitution team does make up some of the best and brightest students that we have at Grant, but it's a very diverse group, as you can see, and they are involved in lots of other activities as well. They're athletes. Our student body president is part of the Constitution team. Our black student union president is part of the Constitution team. They get recognition in a lot of other areas. We appreciate their leadership at Grant, so thanks.
 They're learning about government and the Constitution team, but they also take a strong leadership role at Grant and care about the Grant community a lot. So, again, I'm just really proud to be at a school that has students and a teacher and members of the Portland area that –
 want to ensure that these kids have reached their potential and have an experience that is probably something they'll remember for the rest of their lives. So thank you for recognizing them. I really appreciate it. Barbara? Thank you. Barbara Ross from Classroom Law Project. I'm the program director there. Our executive director, Marilyn Cover, couldn't be here today, but she sent me with these words. These students have reached the top of the mountain.
 So when you think about that pyramid there at the top, there's a whole lot that's happening at this level. And what's happening at this level is this program in fifth grade classrooms, in eighth grade classrooms, to help the civic education that you heard about just a little while ago from one of the students that's needed
 in this city, in this state, in this country. If we had more of that, we would have more students like this. It's noteworthy that a study was done a few years back that showed that alums of this program, the We the People program, vote at a rate in excess of 82%. The only other demographic that does that is the over 65-year-olds. So...
 I'm pretty thrilled that we got them young and trained them right. And these are the informed voters that we want. So to the extent that you're able to encourage more civic education in our fine city, in our wonderful Portland public school system, and in other systems throughout the city and the state, please do. Classroom Law Project is the organization that administers this program across the entire state.
 The Center for Civic Education is the umbrella organization that administers it nationally. But we're the ones that get out there all the way from Malheur to Astoria and try to make this happen for all students. And go Oregon. We rock. They're afraid of us back there in Washington. Good. Thank you. A couple of just closing comments. The first is that.
 Every year, it seems, Congress toys with the idea of pulling the funding for this project. They pulled it several years ago. We're without any federal funding, zero. And you'll recall that in our bicentennial year, the nation made a commitment to these kinds of things and to civic education, and now it's been deemed to be something other than core education.
 which means that the classroom law project depends even more on generous donors and individuals and philanthropy. And that's a shame. It's a shame because we see that recent polls that indicate that even in Oregon, less than half of our citizens know that we have two senators or can name them.
 And at a time when we're seeing a big decline in civic literacy, here's a program that's giving young people the tools to be very effective and engaged citizens. And it does not currently qualify for federal funding. The other thing I just wanted to note, Mayor, is that for whatever reason, the headlines these days frequently highlight where we fall short, where we fall short on graduation rates, where we fall short on funding,
 where we fall short on ratio of teachers to students and things of that nature. I think it's especially important in this climate to recognize excellence in our community and to make sure that the other side of the story is also told about the young people who are bringing great distinction. I have to disclose that I have a conflict of interest on this particular item. You do. Both my chief of staff, Sonia Schmansky, and my scheduler, Aja Blair, are proud graduates of Grant High School. And...
 We're really proud today to be able to celebrate this remarkable achievement, Mayor. Yeah, this is really excellent. And I was so heartened by your victory and also what we heard here today. And actually, I'm really glad that many of you as students are planning on careers in either law or public service as a result of this experience or maybe now heightened.
 interest because of this experience. And I just want to say I look forward to voting for a number of you in the very near future and look forward to seeing you get politically active. We would make the case here among the five of us, I think, that if you really want to make a difference in the world, your best odds of doing that are local.
 that of course the Congress still matters, of course the state legislature still does important work, but the ability to shape change is greatest at the local level. And in fact, that's probably why the Pope has invited 15 mayors to come meet with him to talk about climate change, because most of the real work in the world that's being done on that issue is being done at the local or the metropolitan level. So we would insert a plug for...
 Continue your leadership, but please continue it here if you're interested in local leadership We look forward to having you serve up here not very long from now if I might piggyback on that ladies I'm looking especially at you. I'm the seventh woman ever to serve on the Portland City Council. That's frankly not enough. I
 So, certainly go to college, go to advanced degrees, get some real jobs and get some life experience and then please think about coming back and serving your community. That Portland Public Schools, and I mean all of Portland's public schools, David Douglas and Park Rose and the other districts that are partly in Portland as well as the three that are entirely within Portland, amazing opportunities for learning about life as well as learning academics and it's great that you have excelled in both of those.
 So be sure to tell people about your success. I know sometimes we don't do that as much as we should, and then sometimes people don't listen. But it's wonderful that you have achieved what you have through being in the public school system. And Portland is still a place where the majority of families still send their kids to public schools, and you are part of the reason why you're showing why it matters. So thank you for coming today. Thank you for working so hard and being great ambassadors for our community.
 As Commissioner Fish said, I have in the past served – I missed this last year for some reason, but I have in the past served as a judge in the regional competition. And as Commissioner Fish said, it is extraordinary to watch team after team and say, I don't see how any other team could possibly be as good as this. And then another team comes along that's as good as this. It's something that watching –
 you all perform is something that everybody in Portland should experience. I think that these competitions should be in the Rose Garden with the 20,000 people. It is really inspiring. It is really amazing. And we are all so proud that you continue to win year after year.
 You know, not to knock them, but maybe the Trailblazers could take some lessons from you. I mean, they haven't won since 1977, so maybe you should, like, go over and, like, give them some pep talks. Thank you so, so much. Mayor, we're going to take a picture, but it's our tradition before we do that to recognize the parents and teachers in the room. So would all the parents and people here supporting these young people and teachers please stand so we can recognize you as well today.
 with the parents and teachers and loved ones. Thank you. We asked the students to come forward with their support team and take a photo with us. We'd love that. Thank you. You can come all the way in, guys. We maybe have a second row. Get everybody in.
 Jenny, why don't you orchestrate this? Okay, go at an angle. If you're this way, go this way. If you're that way, go this way. At an angle. There you go. Question. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Can we see you, please? Jenny, do you have a wide-angle lens? Yeah. We say, go Generals. Yes, go Generals.
 yeah that's excellent thank you so much thank you
 Okay. We'll move on to the rest of our regular agenda, and we've covered items 531 and 532. Let's move to item 533. 533, authorize a borrowing of not more than $31,885,000 in anticipation of the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund levy for fiscal year 2015-2016. Mr. Berry.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Jonas Beery, the city's debt manager. This ordinance authorizes issuance of up to $31,885,000 in short-term tax anticipation notes to fund an annual cash flow deficit of the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund. Approval of this ordinance is being requested on an emergency basis so that we may complete the transaction as soon as practical to meet the cash flow requirement.
 This is an administrative financing action that the city completes each year to ensure cash flow to meet monthly requirements of the FPDNR system.
 The FPDR fund receives cash from a voter-approved property tax levy each November. Tax receipts from that levy may be spent through the end of the fiscal year on June 30th, which creates a gap between July 1 and receipt of that November levy. These tax anticipation notes provide the funding to accommodate that gap in calendar 2015. Thank you.
 The notes will be secured by and repaid from fiscal year 15-16 FPD&R levy receipts and will mature no later than June 30, 2016. We expect to sell the notes via a competitive bidding process in July, and I'd be happy to answer any questions. Great. Thank you. Questions for Jonas? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then we'll take a roll call vote on the emergency ordinance. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. This annual event causes me great amusement because it sometimes gets irate emails from people thinking we're borrowing another $31 million that's never going to be paid back and the world is going to hell in a handbasket. And, in fact, it's something that, as you said, we do every year. It's a matter of when the property tax levy comes in. And so it's evidence of good fiscal management and not a problem.
 Yeah, I'll certainly second that. As I mentioned in my State of the City speech, I get to talk with other mayors at the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and the fact that our police and fire pension system is this boring
 and that a debt issue like this is routine and that we pay our bills is something that is just science fiction in a lot of other American cities. So credit to Jonas and to the managers of the Fire and Police Disability Retirement System over the years, and again, continued credit to Commissioner Saltzman for the fact that we're now on a trajectory where we are not likely to ever hit our levy cap. This is the kind of news that other cities would love to have. Thank you. Aye. Good work.
 Okay, 534. Grant a franchise to Quest Broadband Services, Inc., doing business as CenturyLink to operate a cable system. Second reading, roll call. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Congratulations, CenturyLink. We look forward to your video soon. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Thanks to the Office of Community Technology continuing to do a great job. Aye. Hales. Ditto. Aye. Thank you all.
 Okay, 535.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of Southwest Stevenson and Southwest Hamilton Drainage and Road Shoulder Improvements, BES Project E10131, for $560,000. Fish, fish. Are you going to? Brandon? Yes, I'm Brandon. Are you waiting for Scott? Yes, he should be over any minute. Okay. Mayor, can we move on and come back to this? You bet. Let's do 536, please.
 536, revised sewer and stormwater rates, charges, and fees in accordance with the fiscal year 2015-2016 sewer user rate study. Second reading and roll call. Fish? Well, Mayor, this is the end of a long road, and we have a number of people to thank at this stage. The Bureau Advisory Committee, and I'm going to, if I could, Mayor, I'll make comments on this that are important.
 not unique to 536, but cover 537 because the public sees this as a combined rate. So I'll just make one set of comments. I want to begin by thanking our Bureau Advisory Committees at both the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services for diligently taking up their charge, which is to help us review our budget and craft a recommendation to the mayor, which is the first step in our process.
 I want to thank the members of the PIRB. This is the last budget cycle in which they have participated, and they have given over the years good service to the community, and we'll be thanking them more formally later. I want to acknowledge the good work of the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon. As people now are very familiar, this is the first time the CUB has ever served as an outside independent rate payer advocate for residential rate payers with a public utility fund.
 they have historically played that role with private utilities to great effect it's the first time they've played that role with a public utility and it's because last year the city invited this unique partnership and in this budget cycle we are actually going to be seeing a slight reduction in the proposed rate mayor because of a suggestion from cub that we go to full cost recovery on one of our sdcs our systems development charges so we thank them for their
 their service. This set of recommendations has been fully vetted, including at a rate hearing review. I think it's the second year in a row we've had a separate public hearing and invited the public to come out and understand how the rate recommendation was established and to ask questions of officials who are responsible for that. We have had a dedicated rate hearing in which the public was
 invited to come testify on the recommendation that the mayor has now proposed based on the recommendation that I forwarded to him. Today, what before us is the third year in a row, Mayor, where the council has been presented with a recommended rate increase combined for water, sewer, and stormwater below 5%.
 And that's a significant milestone because, as we all know, starting a number of years ago, the rate forecast for our utilities was well and above 5%.
 And it is only because people have sharpened their pencils and we've been blessed with low interest rates and other favorable outcomes that we've been able to whittle it away so the combined increase is below 5%. Now let me be very clear. Not a single person on this panel relishes raising rates on our customers. We don't do so arbitrarily and we don't do so without understanding the potential impact on our customers.
 But we do so because we have an obligation to invest in a system where there is aging infrastructure that is failing all the time, where people expect to have high-quality services at a fair value, and where our community is growing and we have to plan for growth. The recommendation before the council today has gone through a lot of eyes and a lot of process. It is, I think, a reasonable proposal which will allow us to continue to provide very high-quality services to
 to a pool of over 930,000 customers, if you include all the customers of the Water Bureau. And for that reason, I am pleased to vote aye. Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 As Commissioner Fish said, none of us relishes raising rates on anybody for any purpose. Some of us recognize that water and sewer fees are regressive because there's not a direct correlation between income and water and sewer usage. But we haven't come up with another way to raise the money we need to have a functioning water and sewer system. And without a functioning water and sewer systems, I mean, the city essentially doesn't exist. Right.
 So I really appreciate the efforts that the Bureau and CUB and Commissioner Fish have made to limit potential rate increases and hope the committee will understand that what we're doing today is the only responsible thing to maintain our system.
 One thing I'd like to mention is that there's been a lot of debate about increasing density in this city, and density brings pressures and annoyances for a lot of people. I feel fairly certain, though, that with increasing density, with more people in the city, we will see lower per capita water and sewer costs than we otherwise would, because so much of the cost of the water and sewer system is per capita.
 fixed costs. So I don't know that that's absolutely true, but I strongly suspect that it's true. And we're starting a process of trying to figure out whether we can quantify that. So that's something that I hope that we can be able to talk to people about in the next year. Hi. Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for
 transparency and lack of drama in this budget. And indeed, in your management of the Water and Environmental Services Bureau over the last two years, it's quite different than it was four years ago and in previous, over the course of the recession. So I very much appreciate your diligence and openness and transparency, exemplified by Bob Salinger's comments earlier today about the commitment to the water
 the green approach in environmental services and the successful battle to retain control of the Water Bureau. So thank you for leading the council on those things. I also appreciate your increasing the SDC, the system development charges, to 100% cost recovery. Development needs to pay its way, and that's the approach that I support. I appreciate Commissioner Novick addressing the issue of folks who are having a...
 struggle continuing to pay their bills. The city needs to pay its bills too and we need to maintain the water and the pipe system as well as the green system in order to be able to hand on to future generations a system that's in good repair. And so that's what this budget does. Hi. Hills. Hills.
 Well, first, cost matters. So it's appropriate that we as a council are constantly putting pressure on the water and PES bureaus to control costs, and that's reflected in this modest rate increase. And I certainly hope and believe that the points that you just made, Commissioner Novick, will help.
 We'll bear out that as we add more people to the system that we spread those costs over more users and that that will start to help us hold down rates in the future. So we have a shared responsibility every year to make sure that not only we keep these rate increases modest, but that all the costs in the Bureau are justified.
 in each of these bureaus. Secondly, as I mentioned before and relevant to other items on the Council calendar today, it's appropriate that we as a Board look at all of the costs that we impose on our citizens and in particular on new development with respect to systems development charges and fees and other requirements as a check against becoming San Francisco.
 as our housing costs rise and as we try to deal with the questions of affordable housing. So this council will be meeting in work session to dig into those issues in detail to look at the total impact of everything that we do on both the cost side of housing and on what we can do to improve the opportunities for people to still be able to afford to live either as homeowners or renters in our city as Portland becomes more and more popular. Thank you.
 So that bigger picture context of our work on costs and affordability and our work on oversight of costs in general goes on. But I'm very pleased that we are at this point here today. It's interesting, Mr. Salinger mentioned
 that only a year ago, the memory is starting to fade now, but only a year ago we basically faced a referendum on whether city leadership should continue in providing these services, and the voters very overwhelmingly said, yes, we should, and that there's some expectations for how we do this. And I think the fact that there has been
 largely accord in the community about the work that you, Commissioner, have done and that these bureaus have brought forward in these rate proposals really shows that we're serious about that. So I want to thank you, Commissioner Fish. I want to thank the leadership of both BES and the Water Bureau for good management and the Council for good oversight to get us to a point where, yes, no one's ever happy with a rate increase, but we're keeping costs under control and we're keeping an eye on them. So thank you all very much. Aye.
 Okay. Next item. You want to take 537? Yes. Yes. Okay. Authorize the rates and charges for water and water-related services during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016, and fix an effective date. Second reading. Roll call. Fish? Mayor, this is the last budget proposal on rates that David Schaaf and Jim Hagerman will present to the council.
 I want to acknowledge both of them for their exemplary service, and I'm sure the council will find ways to embarrass them later. And, of course, we all look forward to later in June gathering at the new interstate building for a special ceremony at Merritt where you'll be speaking. I also want to thank their senior teams. None of them do their job alone, and they have extraordinarily competent and dedicated people in the senior management that help them
 run these bureaus. I want to thank them personally. I also want to thank in my office my Chief of Staff, Sonja Schmanski, Liam Frost, who is my new Water Bureau liaison, and Jim Blackman, who is the BES liaison. And finally, I just want to acknowledge something that Steve said earlier. One of my predecessors about 15 years ago anticipated that we were going to have this problem of suburban customers over time pulling out of the system.
 And there's a complicated back story to this, but it basically comes down to whether they wanted to be renters or owners. And I do not think the math is going to look favorably on that equation, but every jurisdiction gets to make their own decision. But anticipating that we would lose suburban customers, my predecessor 15 years ago understood that that would put pressure on rates, because in a fixed cost system, if you have fewer people that you serve, then the costs get allocated to a smaller base and it ends up meaning you pay more.
 I don't think there is a more important issue that faces us as a council than making sure that we share the cost of this majestic system with as many customers as possible. And whether it is a hidden dividend of growth and people moving here and more customers that we have within our boundaries,
 or whether it's convincing our suburban customers, our wholesale customers, that this relationship is mutually beneficial. I don't think there's anything more important in terms of rate impact than that exercise, and it's one of the reasons that I'm the first commissioner in a while to go to the regional water consortium meetings because part of the task is to reestablish good, healthy, respectful relationships with our customers.
 who have not always felt that we acted in their best interest. So with that, I just want to say again thanks to the team, and I'll vote aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay. And 538. Revise transportation fees, rates, and charges for fiscal year 2015-16 and fix an effective date. Second meeting, roll call.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. I appreciate my colleague's suggestion that we move towards full cost recovery in the next year. Aye. Fritz. Yes, Commissioner. On that note, I'm
 Happy to support these proposals. I don't think they go far enough and I hope that we won't wait until next budget to Have a revised proposal for discussion or perhaps a work session or something to make sure that Transportation improvements are funded appropriately by new development. I hails 539 amend fee schedules for site development and enforcement second reading and roll call ish. I I
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thanks to my team at the Bureau of Development Services for all of their diligent work, and also Dora Perry, my liaison. Aye. Hales? Aye. 540? Aye.
 amend fee schedules for tree permits in development situations. Thank you. This is coming a little after the other fee schedules because we wanted to take the time to consult with the Urban Forestry Commission, the Development Review Advisory Commission, and the Title XI Oversight Committee prior to coming, and that's why this is an emergency ordinance. Yes.
 The proposed fees for your consideration today reflect the expanded regulatory role of the city's urban forestry program in the protection and expansion of our urban care canopy. We adopted the urban forestry fee schedule last November in support of the Title 11 implementation. This proposal adds fees for programmatic permits, enforcement fees, and penalties and development review fees. Those have been funded by general fund up until this point.
 Tree protection is a consideration of some land use reviews and early assistance where tree reviews are expected to be required. In the past, urban forestry's involvement in these land use reviews was limited due to insufficient resources. The council has recognized that that needs to change because in addition to other regulatory bureaus,
 Certainty is required to manage cost and meet project deadlines, and these fees will provide the applicants with more certainty at the front end of a land use decision by bringing urban forestry in early.
 So I would just now turn this over to Jen Carrier, the City Forester, who will provide an overview of the proposed fees. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. So as Commissioner Fritz described, I'm here today to describe the proposed new fees for certain land use review permitting processes that are performed by Parks Urban Forestry. And these fees would be paid by development permit applicants and, if approved, would take effect January 1st.
 As you recall, in January, Parks, Urban Forestry, and the Bureau of Development Services began implementation of the city's new tree regulations, Title 11. Title 11 gives urban forestry increased responsibilities, including for review and preservation of trees in some development situations, especially in early project phases, which helps prevent surprises and delays for applicants and creates more opportunities for tree preservation.
 Urban Forestry has provided these land use review services in the past, however, to a limited degree due to staffing constraints and the absence of a systematic role in the Bureau of Development Services process for reviewing those land uses. So the new fees will enable Urban Forestry to provide the services and help ensure that the tree reviews are part of the processes systematically.
 Land use review process fees are charged by the other regulatory bureaus, and if approved, these fees for urban forestry's reviews would be added to the land use review fee schedule alongside the other bureaus. We are not proposing fees for all land use review processes, only those that regularly require tree reviews according to our colleagues at the Bureau of Development Services. And I'm now going to show you what fees we're speaking of specifically.
 So here are the land use review processes for which we would be charging fees, and you'll see the fee rate down the line is $136. These are full-cost recovery. We are proposing to charge for some types of conditional use reviews, and those are here, minor and major new.
 And we're also proposing to charge for early assistance services, and you'll see these are a slightly higher rate. That is because the early assistance processes are more involved and often involve meetings and written responses, and that's above and beyond what the earlier processes require. In determining the appropriate amounts to charge, the land use review fees from the other regulatory bureaus were considered, and urban forestry's rates come out at the low end of the range.
 And other land use review fees, and you'll see those now, we are not proposing to charge for these because these do not routinely involve tree reviews. We do at times provide services for tree reviews under these processes, and we'll continue to do that as needed, but we'll just absorb those costs for the time being. And lastly, I would say that in the future, we'll be analyzing the costs of providing the tree regulatory services, and fee reviews are planned for future years as well.
 And if you have any questions, I'd be happy to try to answer them. So the only question I have is just looking at this fee schedule. Obviously, you've set almost all these fees at the same dollar amount. Obviously, there's lots of different kinds of reviews and decisions here. So how does that get you to appropriate cost recovery if they're all leveled?
 Okay, thanks for the question, Mayor. A lot of these processes, although they're different in the whole, the tree review part is fairly straightforward and of a consistent size. At least that's what our experience has shown in the past. So it's pretty simple for us to figure out cost recovery. It's just what is the going rate for the staff time and how long does it take. And in all cases except the early assistance reviews, the staff time is not that excessive. It's usually an hour and a half or two hours of time.
 Okay. Thank you. And what is the going rate for staff time? It's $90.86 inclusive. Is that across the Bureau or is that urban forestry? No, that's for urban forestry. And that's a tree inspector, but it covers other classifications in urban forestry as well. And that's a full rate, so it's got any overhead already put into it. Those are developed by our finance department in parks.
 Questions for Jen? To clarify, these fees would go into effect on July 1st. Okay, good. I have just one question. If someone has permission to remove a tree in the right-of-way, how long do they have to replace it?
 That's a great question, Commissioner. Technically, according to their permit, they have a couple months to replace it. However, because of our climate here, it's usually less than ideal for trees to get planted in the hot, dry summer. And so in those cases, we allow extensions into the next growing season. So if you take the whole picture, it can be several months before that replacement tree is required to be in the ground. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Thanks very much. Okay, thank you. We'll take testimony on this. Is there anyone signed up to speak on the side? I have David Davis and Charles Johnson. I believe Mr. Johnson is here. Come on up. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I want to thank the staff that worked on this and encourage you to, regardless of whatever behind the closed doors protests you may have, go ahead and vote yes and integrate this.
 The just basic cost recovery, as you mentioned, Mr. Mayor, is not all that needs, unless there's statutory limitations, needs to be in the fees. In the past couple weeks, there have been people in this chamber who have been concerned that there's not adequate citizen awareness and citizen involvement in the process that this city has available to make sure we have a great green canopy that isn't lost, as some people pursue. Thank you.
 development so we can house all those climate refugees Novick's inviting here. But so I want to encourage Commissioner Fitz and the staff to advocate that these fees are actually ridiculously low when we consider the value that is really being provided here, keeping a great green bird hosting tree canopy in our city that makes it a livable space. And I hope that people involved in the urban forestry will
 have enough in their budget that they can bring citizens, have some more public forums and get people more involved in how they can advocate for the other living things, particularly the trees in their neighborhoods, so that they're not lost. And thank you, Commissioner Cronin.
 Fish for being aware that sometimes people are distressed that for many months the spot where a tree was is vacant. And for the explanation we got about, well, we don't want to put a tree there, just have it die, especially with the drought conditions. And I think that's another reason we can look for perhaps even, you know, developers will hate me for this, but they already do, more and more comprehensive solutions.
 fee structure if the drought conditions which have been declared in many Oregon counties persist and move into Multnomah County, we're going to need to have financing for tree maintenance and drought mitigation issues. So I hope that we'll be able to put those costs with the developers who are responsible for some of those issues. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, anyone else? All right, then this is an emergency ordinance. We'll take a roll call vote.
 I want to thank our colleague Commissioner Fritz for bringing this forward. Mayor and I attended a luncheon recently where the Friends of Trees gave Commissioner Fritz their highest honor and highest award for service. I can think of no one over my service on the council who has been a greater champion for trees and the tree canopy and all of the related issues. So congratulations. I'm a huge fan of Jen Cairo and I have to just say that. I actually used to work with her more frequently.
 But she does great work at the Bureau, and it needs to be acknowledged. And I appreciate the discussion today on the fee schedules, and I'm persuaded this is the right thing to do. So I'm pleased to vote aye. Thank you. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Well, thank you, colleagues, for continuing to support this important work as we all work together to implement Title XI.
 I've found it kind of amusing to be berated for lack of citizen involvement when we had not one but three committees that heard about this, the Urban Forestry Commission, the Title XI Oversight Committee and the Development Review Advisory Committee, all of which are open public meetings and very happy to have community engagement. And I appreciate their service and their advice as well as the Parks Board and others.
 Thank you to Directors Mike Abate and Paul Scarlett for the two bureaus working together really well on this. Deb Lev and our City Forester, Jen Cairo, and all of your staff, you've been working extremely hard to make Title XI work, and I really appreciate it. Above and beyond the call of duty, and we'll be funding.
 some additional positions using urban forestry reserves in the budget this afternoon to bring you a little relief but even so I know you're going to continue to be working really hard and I greatly appreciate it thanks to Mike Hayakawa and Mika Keenan in the Bureau of Development Services who've also been providing amazing stewardship and have been very helpful in getting these feeds before Council and also Patty Howard and Tom Bezo and my staff who it's been a great team effort and I really appreciate that we are moving forward aye
 Thank you. Aye. Thanks very much. Okay, let's move on to 541. Did you want to return to 535, the one we started first? Oh, I'm sorry. Did we skip something? You're right, we did. 535.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of Southwest Stevenson and Southwest Hamilton Drainage and Road Shoulder Improvements BES Project E10131 for $560,000. Mr. Fish and team. Thank you, Mayor. We're joined today by Scott Gibson and Brandon Wilson from the Bureau of Environmental Services. Thank you.
 This ordinance would authorize a contract for a project to convert roadside drainage ditches in southwest Portland into vegetated swales. These ditches along southwest Hamilton and southwest Stevenson currently carry stormwater runoff directly to Fano Creek and Tryon Creek, respectively. The vegetated swales would filter some pollutants from stormwater to help protect water quality. Thank you.
 As part of this project, the Portland Bureau of Transportation proposes to add four-foot-wide paved shoulders next to the new swales. And I'm pleased to turn this over to Scott Gibson for a brief presentation.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner Fish. Good morning, City Council, Mr. Mayor. With me today is Brandon Wilson. He's an engineer at the Bureau of Environmental Services. He's one of the engineers we've tasked with working closely with PBOT. And so it's our shared pleasure to bring this project to you today. It's a small project, $560,000 is our estimate for the contract, but it's an important one. And I'll turn it over to Brandon to give you a brief presentation. Good morning. Good morning.
 So this project happens in two major collector streets in the southwest Portland area, southwest Stevenson, between 35th Avenue and Boones Ferry. And the second portion is on southwest Hamilton Street between 47th and 45th, also at 40th Avenue in the Bridal Mile neighborhood. As was mentioned before, this is a water quality project.
 And there is also a concern for safety. Several of the streets in this watershed are without curbs. They're just roadside ditches. We're also proposing the proposed improvements to slow treat stormwater before it reaches the streams, improving water quality. Project goals and objectives. Essentially, this project has been recommended by our city process watershed management plan.
 We plan to improve 2,900 linear feet of roadside ditches to a more conventional swale type of design with check dams. This project also includes two conventional stormwater facilities, curb extensions. As Scott mentioned, we have been coordinating with PBOT as well. PBOT will be adding a four-foot-wide paved shoulder. I'll also mention that the project received a large support from the neighborhood community
 from the neighbors. Also, with a specific interest from active transportation groups for the paved shoulder, the Neighborhood Association has also contacted Commissioner Novick's office and PBOT regarding the gaps in the pedestrian connectivity that will not be addressed by this water quality project. Public involvement has been extensive for this project, including public mailings, meetings, as well as on-site meetings with individuals.
 And we've basically, we've heard from the neighbors and from the community that a design featuring roadside swales with plants is preferred to perforated pipe covered with gravel. Impacts to vegetation. So there are several proposed improvements that we have require some tree and shrub removal.
 And as I mentioned before, we work closely with our neighbors, providing more than a six-month notice of the specific impacts to adjacent properties, as well as many site visits and, in some cases, design changes based on property owner input. So there were several trees that were removed as part of this project, and the mitigation planting includes 2,000 native trees in Ash Creek Natural Area. This is a pilot project. This is the first implemented of its kind.
 There are several projects that are planned with similar type of scope that will benefit from the lessons learned and design criteria established. And the last slide basically just talks about some of the next steps. Bids were due last Thursday. Confidence level is high. And purchasing agent will report back to council with lowest responsible bid. We expect to be in construction late July, potentially August.
 And the construction duration is approximately five months. And that concludes my presentation. I'd be happy to entertain any questions if you have any. So the mitigation effort sounds impressive, 2,000 trees, right? So how did we arrive at that?
 that level of mitigation. I'm not unhappy about it. I'm just trying to understand the math of relatively modest project 2,000 trees. Right. Well, the calculation that they use has to do with the existing diameters of trees that we're removing. So, and that's...
 the 2000 trees are our seedlings as far as i understand just a lot smaller diameter so it's through that calculation so that's an inch for inch mitigation or something in that neighborhood exactly okay it allows us to plant the smaller seedlings in the natural area which we hope will be more successful okay great thank you other questions these two sites are several miles apart why did you choose to have one contract rather than two
 I believe that this was proposed in the original pre-design, and they're, quite frankly, happening sooner because of the high priority that was assessed through the pre-design. That might be something to think about for future, since this is a pilot. If they were split, maybe some smaller companies might be able to bid on them and...
 get experience that then they could bid on larger contracts. So just a thought for next time. Certainly. Thank you. It's a great question. I guess what I would ask you, Scott, because I hadn't thought of that, because it's a pilot, is there any benefit to having a single contractor do it for purposes of lesson learned, or could we get the same mileage and lessons learned by having two different contractors do the work? That's a good question. I actually don't know what we would get in the different scenarios.
 We basically did identify these two streets because they were similar, and we thought that we needed to find a new solution for transportation in Southwest for mobility and stormwater. So we identified them additionally, and we do end up dealing with this issue of as the product develops and the scope matures, starting an effort together and then figuring out how to balance the contracting opportunities together.
 So I know I didn't answer your question when I was getting out. I think the question on the table, and we're not going to resolve it today necessarily, but...
 When does efficiency bump up against opportunity? And I can see that having a single contract might have some advantages in terms of efficiency, but does it undercut our companion goal of expanding opportunity? And I think it's a question worthy of a deeper look. And it might – the two sites are somewhat different in terms of slope and topography and neighborhood associations, so that might –
 be a good thing to do for a pilot. A single contractor would be able to say, well, this worked here and this didn't work here. So I appreciate the thoughtful approach and then maybe in the future. And if I could just add one little thing. Our engineer's estimate was 560. So we have the prime contractor development program
 And we were, so we're always struggling with that threshold. Do we think it's going to be above that? Is it going to be below that? How do we bid it? Can we break these up into two smaller ones? And when we make these decisions, we have to make them relatively early. And so sometimes when it comes down to actually awarding the contract, we've got so much work in progress that we look to make the early decisions better in the future rather than try and break it up at the end. A good project. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you both very much.
 Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Then it will proceed to second reading next week. Thank you very much. And let's go back to item number 541, please.
 Accept the South Waterfront Greenway Central District Improvements Project Number P00193, constructed by James W. Fowler Company as complete, and authorized final payment in the amount of $1,001. Would you please read 542 as well? Okay. Okay.
 542 transmit evaluation report on the alternative contracting method for the south waterfront greenway central district improvements mr fritz it's very much my pleasure to announce that the central district portion of the south waterfront greenway is now complete and open for portlanders and visitors to enjoy and so i'm going to turn this over to kia celli for the presentation
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. My name is Kia Selle. I'm the Planning, Development, and Asset Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm here today with Allison Rouse, who is a landscape architect and is the project manager for the South Waterfront Central District Greenway Project. Thank you.
 Portland Parks and Recreation is also very excited. As staff, we are very excited about completion of this project and the opportunities that this new riverfront park provides with open space, trails, and habitat for everyone in the community to enjoy. This has been a particularly challenging and complex project and a highly successful application of the construction manager, general contractor, alternative contracting approach.
 I want to sincerely thank the council for their leadership and their commitment to seeing this project through. And I also want to thank the Portland Development Commission, TriMet, Oregon Health and Sciences University, Williams and Dame Development, the Audubon Society of Portland, our contractor, James W. Fowler and Company, and the community for their patience during construction. There are a lot of thanks to go around.
 I will now turn it over to Allison Rouse. She is going to provide you with an overview of the project, and then we're happy to take any questions that you might have. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you very much for having me. My name is Allison Rouse. I am a Capital Projects Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation, and I might add also the proud aunt and godmother of a Grant High School Constitution team member. I saw her on television this morning, and I was getting ready to come over here and –
 So proud. Beth Kaye was here earlier, and she's a proud mom, too. I'm here today to request that the council formally accept the completed construction project at the South Waterfront Greenway Central District and approve the final payment to the contractor. The Greenway Central District is the first of three planned segments of a riverfront park and trail along the west side of the Willamette in the South Waterfront neighborhood.
 The Greenway Development Plan, adopted by Council in 2004, guided the planning and design of the park. When completed, the South Waterfront Greenway Trails will connect downtown, which is at the left in this image, with the river trail system that leads south and connects with the Selwood Bridge. The Central District design can be divided roughly into two zones that also correspond to the sequence in which they were constructed.
 a reconstruction of the riverbank into habitat supporting endangered fish, and an upland park for recreation that holds two trails, one for pedestrians and one for cyclists. In this image, the red line indicates the boundary between the two zones, which runs roughly along the top of the riverbank. The entire site is a brownfield and is heavily impacted by the industrial activities that took place here during the previous century.
 When we began, the bank was armored with a thick layer of concrete debris, metal, wood, and a hard shell of concrete slurry left over from its days as a dump site. The original riverbank was 100 to 150 feet west of where you see it in these photos, and the fill was up to 30 feet deep in places. The entire site is lightly contaminated and is enrolled in the State Department of Environmental Quality's voluntary cleanup program.
 The project removed and disposed of over 32,000 tons of lightly contaminated soil, 200 tons of asbestos-containing materials, and 60 tons of outright toxics, all under the close scrutiny of the federal and state resource agencies and neighboring property owners.
 In order to produce a more realistic habitat, the entire bank had to be reshaped into a more naturalistic slope back from the river's edge. This image from 2012 shows the cruise about two-thirds of the way down along to the bottom of this massive cut that we had to make. One of the most difficult issues faced during construction was that in 2012 the river did not reseed according to its historic patterns.
 so that we could not dig down to install the lowest portions of the design. This image shows some of the ways the contractor had to adapt their staging and sequencing in response to the high water. Just to the left of the slide is a low berm of riverbank that we left untouched so that the water would not inundate the worksite. That was not according to plan.
 In consultation with the DEQ, the Division of State Lands, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, we took emergency measures to install a temporary rock cover over the cut for that winter, and we made plans to return in the following summer of 2013.
 This image shows what it took to complete the lowest portions of the work during 2013. A double layer of yellow sediment curtains was installed around the work area to prevent contaminated sediment from escaping into the flowing river. The man in the boat took continual water quality samples in order to confirm that the protective measures were working. We were able to finish the riverbank reconstruction that year, 2013.
 In the spring of 2014, we returned to finish the last piece of the project, the Upland Park and Trail System. In all, the project installed a clean cap over nearly 4.5 acres of post-industrial brownfield and 25,500 square feet of rocky, shallow water habitat, which will provide refuge for juvenile salmon.
 Higher up along the riverbank, the project installed riparian habitat featuring thousands of native trees, shrubs, and ground covers, as well as five river overlooks. The upland park includes 1,250 lineal feet of bike and pedestrian trails, trees and lawns, dozens of seating options, all of which have river views, bird-sensitive lighting, and public art.
 In your council packets is a report that we've prepared on the alternative contracting process called the Construction Manager General Contractor, or CMGC, process that we use to hire our general contractor, James W. Fowler. The report is a requirement of public contracting law and discusses Fowler's performance and whether or not the alternative method versus the mandated low bid method benefited the city.
 We believe that Fowler did an excellent job, not only in the quality of the construction, but in managing the many risks and minimizing the cost impacts of all the challenges that the project ultimately dealt with. One feature of the CMGC process is that it often produces better minority contractor utilization than the low bid method. As the commissioner noted, or may note,
 We are pleased to report that this project achieved robust utilization and workforce development goals. 18% of the subcontracted dollars went to disadvantaged business enterprises, 21% of total labor hours were performed by apprentices, and 29% of total labor hours were performed by minorities. We are also happy to report that the site opened to the public on May the 14th and invite all of you to our grand opening celebration scheduled for Saturday, June the 27th.
 I thank you for your advice and support and welcome any questions that you may have. Thank you very much. Great project. Great presentation. Questions? Thank you both. Thank you. Anyone here that wants to speak on this item as well? Come on up, please. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. One of the concerns I have always is with change orders and the original bid and what the final cost was.
 I understand that from the original bid and the final cost, we were quite a distance off. We didn't really go over that number. I'd appreciate it if possibly that could happen today. Another issue I have on the waterfront trails and parks is that what I want to start seeing more in Portland is more access to boaters. And I know on a lot of these type of bids, we're not really looking at having any type of docks or access points for boaters. And I think...
 We're going to miss a lot in the Portland market by not doing that. One of the things I wanted to do is when Centennial Mills is developed is that I want to have access points along the river where people can be taken, say, up to Government Island, be taken to Savi Island, work with some of the artists who want to go to these different islands and do their artwork there.
 And we're missing a real important issue here on allowing that type of accessibility to go out on the river and utilize the river. And I think we're missing something in the Portland market. What I want to see someday in the future is a lot of the vintage Chris Craft, the older boats, going out on the river. And being utilized and having a lot of different events like that to where we can go down and participate along the river together.
 and see these type of antique boats and some of the restoration projects that the boaters do. And every project that I see along the river, it feels to me like we're leaving out the boater community. And I think it's an important area that we need to look at closer and make sure that the funding is there to allow access.
 And there's no environmental reason to not have the boaters out on the river. There's no reason that we should not be focusing on that. And in my opinion, I would love to see a lot of people utilize that transportation from downtown, going up to Government Island, going up to Marine Drive, going up to the restaurants. And I think we need to start focusing on that a little bit more aggressively.
 Again, my only concern on this issue here is any cost overruns, the total cost from the original bid. And if it means that the lowest bidder can stay within the parameters of what they originally bid, then I want to see them get the job. If we're going to go way over our mark, I don't want to see them doing the projects. They need to stay consistent with what they originally bid. I understand there's going to be problems there.
 But let's not go over too far on these original bids and keep a real close eye on this. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, may I ask a question of the Commissioner? Sure, sure. Is there a compelling public reason why we shouldn't slap an emergency clause on this? I believe so, sir. Yeah, we could do these two together. Before we do that, I think this was a guaranteed maximum price project, right? So I don't think there were a lot of change orders in this case. Is that correct? Oh, there it is. There's an increase there. Right, I see it. Okay. Okay.
 There were change orders, sorry. That's correct.
 And that was because? We asked for more scope from the contractor. The first year, because we ran into a lot of difficulties with the soil as far as its suitability for constructing the walls that we needed, because the water level didn't come down and we had to adjust our construction plan, and because we received late changes from the regulatory oversight agencies that
 So then we had to come back the second year. And again, additional regulatory requirements happened as well as we discovered two very, very toxic hot spots in the soil that had to be remediated. And then a large part of the change order or a large part of the changes to the contract were when we added the upland park back to the project. We originally proceeded into construction without that as a part of the scope.
 And as you remember, Mayor, we came back to council with each of those change orders and explained them all thoroughly at the time. Right. Now I see the recap here. Yeah. Okay. Thank you so much. Appreciate that. Any other questions before we proceed to take a motion? I move to slap an emergency clause on this ordinance, Mayor. Second. For the purpose of closing it out in the public interest. For discussion, roll call on adding the emergency clause, please.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, and we'll call vote on 541. Fish. This is a wonderful accomplishment. I look forward to joining you in June. Thank you to Mike Abate, to Kia, and to Allison, and to the whole crack team that brought this thing home. Mayor, there's a cautionary tale in this because you are about to launch an exercise in bringing more access to the river and a beach. Okay.
 And I want to tell you that we've now learned that there's at least two forces conspiring against us on a regular basis. One is the river.
 because it tends to be very unpredictable in terms of level. And two is the veritable alphabet soup of regulatory agencies that get to weigh in at every stage. And it is almost amazing that something like this gets done, given the headwinds. So particularly in light of the enormous challenges you face, congratulations on bringing it home. And also thank you for your deep commitment to equity. Commissioner Fritz, congratulations. Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 Well, thank you. This is a great accomplishment, a great addition to our Greenway system, and look forward to seeing it soon. Hi. Novick. Prince.
 This is yet another project started under Commissioner Fish's leadership at the Bureau, which I have the honor of bringing home. So thank you, Commissioner, for your support of this project and highlighting the necessity to do the Greenway. Thanks also to our wonderful staff and our project funders, the Portland Development Commission, which is the North McAdam Open Renewal Area, TriMet.
 Bureau of Environmental Services, Environmental Remediation Fund, and Portland Parks and Recreation. Shout out to our lead contractor, Walker Macy's, for their landscape architecture. Thanks to OHSU for their use of the adjacent lot as our staging area. Many current and past parks staff, but in particular, Alison Rousk, Elizabeth Kennedy-Wong, Liz Moorhead, Patty Freeman, and Kia Selleh.
 thanks to the Bureau of Environmental Services, Caitlin Lovell. It says in capital letters, everyone at the Office of Procurement. So I think that that's certainly so. And partners in the agency staff, too, Jason Irving, McKay Sposito, Irene Bowers, and Dave O'Byrne of PDC, Dave Unsworth of TriMet, and Mark Williams of OHSU. I hope you can join us formally for the grand opening or informally.
 walking along the greenway it's something that we promised the community back in the days when the north mccadam open renewal district was a twinkle in council's eyes at the time and here two wonderful women leaders and others in the bureau bringing it home for us and i really appreciate it hi hails well great project well done i want to actually echo mr lightning's comments i think the third unpredictable force that we now need to deal with is our own citizens
 because having spent $1.4 billion to clean up our river, we are seeing eruptions of interest in actually getting to it and not simply looking at it passively from a riverbank. So I think subsequent projects are going to need to look at opportunities to get more people to the river in boats, not just here, but everywhere.
 elsewhere in the central city and elsewhere along the reach of both rivers as they serve our city and grace our city, having spent part of Sunday and Monday at docks generously provided by the state marine board, which funds the construction of public docks all along the river system of the state. I know that there are partners among that alphabet soup of agencies who actually have money and who want to build docks.
 So I think Mr. Lightning's point is sound and that we'll see if the council approves the budget item addressing a pilot project river access effort, that we're going to see more and more public demand generated by more and more public access. It's a little bit like the situation that faced the previous city council when we started striping the first bike lanes.
 Be careful when you give bicyclists access to the streets because eventually we'll have a lot of bicyclists. And I think the same thing goes now. We're probably too far down the road to stop giving people access to the river, even if we wanted to. But as they acquire more access to the river, the demand is going to only increase. So subsequent projects for these talented professionals in the Bureau and their many partners involved,
 both the private sector and the other public agencies will give us an opportunity to do even more wonderful things in the future. Well done. Aye. Okay. Then we now have the next item, which we need a motion. Move to accept the report. So second. Discussion? Roll call on adopting the report. Fish? Aye. Selksman? Aye. Novick? This is 543. This is the 542 report. 542. Okay.
 Fritz. So I've become a big fan of this alternative contracting method as evidenced by 21% apprenticeship involvement here and 29% minority businesses. Also note that Central City Concern provided volunteers in their work program to help with the landscaping, and it was wonderful to see them when we went out to see the project near completion. And thanks to all of those returning citizens who are involved in that program. Aye. Bales. Aye. Okay, 543. Aye.
 except park system development charge methodology update report for implementation and amend the applicable sections of city code second reading and roll call fish you know mayor looking at the agenda and seeing that this year we're adopted this week we're voting on a budget on rates on systems development charges
 on greenways, on reservoirs. It seems to me that if we get through this week, can we take the next month off? Only fair. I think we're certainly jamming a highlight reel into one week. I just have a few comments about this because there's been obviously a lot of discussion and some commotion. My recollection when this process was launched to look at systems development charges a number of years ago, it was done so pursuant to a state law requirement of periodic review.
 And so this is a regular feature of our system. It's not something we arbitrarily do. I believe we're required to do, and I'm seeing the Parks team nodding. And in connection with this exercise, Parks has done this a number of occasions. We put together a diverse group of stakeholders, making sure that lots of interests were represented at the table.
 and that includes representatives of the development community, of neighborhoods, parks advocates, lots of folks that had strong views about this subject were at the table guiding it. And then a consultant was hired to provide the technical expertise. In reviewing the record, I note there's been extensive public process and lots of opportunities for people to be heard. Now, on the specific recommendations before us,
 There's a couple of things I want to highlight as particularly aligned with my values. The first is that the recommendation continues the exemption for low-income housing in our community. We have an affordable housing crisis in our community, and let's not kid ourselves. It is primarily a function of people that have either no money or less than 30% of medium family income.
 We can debate the various strategies for preserving a middle class in our community and the value of investing in workforce housing. But the crisis in our community is at zero to 30, is the poorest of the poor, and this recommendation continues an exemption for affordable housing, which I strongly support. Second, it, for the first time, scales the SDC to the size of the houses.
 And Mayor, I'm reminded that Mark Edlin, who I believe you appointed to the PDC board, many years ago said that there was an inherent contradiction between our green building philosophy and policies and the way we administered systems development charges. And as long as it was by the door and not scaled to the size, we were making no distinction between the efficient green unit that was small in footprint and the penthouse, and we were charging the same amount for both.
 And that seemed not only inequitable, but frankly seemed to work against our value system about building sustainable for the future and particularly smaller footprint. Number three, by virtue of an amendment offered by the commissioner in charge, I'm pleased that actually this recommendation lowers rates for units below 700 square feet. And since units are getting smaller at a time that they're getting less affordable –
 As housing is becoming less affordable, there is a move towards smaller footprints that become more affordable and accessible. I think lowering rates for the units that we're trying to encourage is good public policy. And finally, the recommendation...
 It addresses an issue that many of our colleges and universities have complained of for some time, and that is essentially a double dip. And the impact of SDCs on dorms that they're building, where they have historically believed that the impact of that development is absorbed within their campus. And I'm pleased that an independent group on their own came to the recommendation that we should end essentially that double dip.
 Now, we are all familiar, we are all aware that there are critics of this approach. And I've met with, I think, all the critics and all the folks that had a concern and exchanged information. And I've actually learned a lot more about this process through that. And I'm grateful to those who took the time to share their concerns with me.
 And what I learned, and it's not – I don't want to overgeneralize, but what I've learned is that the increase in the rates was not the primary concern that some folks had. Instead, it was the methodology. Okay.
 And this methodology is different, and reasonable people can disagree about the methodology. There is precedent, of course, in other parts of the country, but that was where the focus was in my conversations. So I want to be very clear, Mayor, that in supporting this ordinance,
 I am not impliedly saying that I think this methodology should travel beyond parks and automatically become the standard for every other bureau.
 And I don't think that's within our power. I think the SDC method, I think the legal process for evaluating SDCs requires an independent inquiry and analysis. And so I don't believe we're setting an effective precedent, which becomes the standard for every other bureau to follow. And I know that's a concern that's been raised. I also appreciate the delay that first Commissioner Fritz and then Mayor Hales have built into this to avoid some inequities.
 And one of the inequities that concerned me was the developer, and it could be any developer, public or private, that was well underway a planning process, had a pro forma, but did not anticipate the potential impact of a change in methodology on their bottom line.
 And one of the things I think we owe people in the development community is certainty. And the delay gives us a chance to make sure that people that are well underway get the benefit of the existing rules and people planning future development can plan accordingly based on the new rates. And finally, I fully support the Mayor's call for a broader look at fees and costs, including SDCs, which I understand, Mayor, that you will commence this late summer and early fall.
 I think that's long overdue because consistently we hear from people that they don't see the forest on the trees, and they wonder if we're actually looking at the cumulative impact on things like development and cost. And we haven't done that as well as we should, and so I think that's a good discussion to have, and I support it. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for leading this effort, for Mike Abate and his senior team, for all the citizens that gave their time.
 to help us shape this proposal and all those who've come before council and raise their concerns i believe with the amendments this is a better proposal and um i think it um the case has been made that it is a it is a change in methodology for parks that is warranted at this time and so i vote aye saltzman uh well i i cannot support this uh
 Parks SDC update. Well, I think that we are great at talking about how we need to be strategic in assessing the impacts of fees on development, and let's not forget that development means housing. I mean, we're not taxing the developers. We're taxing the prospective purchasers of housing. And while we can take a great pride that we have a low-income exemption here, I think as we know from the housing report that we received just last month,
 portland is unaffordable to people from all incomes low income totally dark you can't afford to live in the city median income you can afford to live east of 82nd in north portland eighty percent of income which is a family of four earning fifty five thousand dollars you can live east of eighty second or in far north portland so clearly to
 pass a fee like this in such a vacuum in a one-off fashion and that is a one-off fashion it's we're doing fee increases as we think there are three votes to do them rather than any sort of strategic comprehensive look and i appreciate the mayor saying we're going to do that i look forward to that look
 But in the meantime, we're assessing an SDC update, which has to be done, I understand, but I still don't understand why there has to be such a tremendous overall revenue increase associated with that, especially when we're facing a crisis for middle income earners in this city.
 We have a crisis for low-income earners, but we have a crisis for middle-income earners, too. They can no longer afford to buy a house in the central city, and that's, in fact, where the SDCs are going to increase the most. And I guess to go a little further, I mean, Portland Parks has been on a roll. It's rightly been recognized as a gold medal winner as a park system. But I also know that it's...
 Wallet is bursting with STC revenues. You've collected more STC revenues than at any point in history. The budget we're going to pass this afternoon increases your ongoing funding by some $7 million. So I don't see the crisis that justifies such a revenue increase with this methodology update. And I think that this council needs to start being more concerned about middle wage earners and their ability to
 survive and prosper in this city. Otherwise, we do become the San Francisco or the Seattle or the Denver, and I don't think any of us want to go there. So we need to act more concerted. We need to act more strategically, and we need to act. I mean, it seems like the only people talking about middle-wage earners these days are the presidential candidates, and a lot of that's empty rhetoric. I think it's time for us to act.
 to put our fees where our mouths are and to be very serious about how we can make allow more single-family construction and multi-family construction in the city of portland uh this is the wrong move at the wrong time and therefore i vote no novick
 Well, there are some things, some factors that recommend this proposal. For one thing, it's perfectly appropriate for parks to collect SDCs. We do need to build new parks, particularly in East Portland, and make improvements to existing parks.
 Also, the move from a methodology where we assume that we're going to have the same number of acres of parkland for every new resident that was used for old residents makes sense because, as the consultant pointed out, we just don't have enough extra acres to buy. And I think that moving to a system where we charge with a greater differential in fees based on the size of the structure I think makes sense.
 Just as the Development Review Advisory Committee said that they would have liked to have more time to study this proposal, I would like to have more time to study this proposal in a broader context, where we discuss the question of what's the overall level of SDCs and other fees that we would expect people buying a house of such and such size to pay, and how does this fit into that overall picture? Sure.
 If we adopted the same methodology for transportation SDCs as for parks SDCs, and intuitively I don't really see why the logic is much different, then the transportation SDCs for a 1,700-square-foot house would go up from around $3,000 to over $30,000. And I don't think that we would make that jump without taking a long look at the consequences for housing affordability.
 So, I think that it makes sense to delay this decision until we take a longer look at the impact of SDCVs as a whole on housing affordability. Although we're moving away from the concept of we're going to have as much acreage for every new person as we have for old people, sorry, not old people, existing residents,
 This is based on the replacement value of the assets of the park system and assuming that each person will pay as much to add to the park system as the existing people, proportional to the number of existing people towards building the existing system. But the cost of the existing system is largely the cost of acreage. So I don't know that we've actually moved very far from the old methodology.
 I also think that we need to have a discussion about the fact that we have this preference in our budgeting for maintenance of new parks, that when we build a new park, then the ongoing cost of that maintenance is built into parks general fund allocation for the succeeding years. That means that gradually...
 new parks will take a larger share of the general fund. And I think that we should have a conversation about the consequences of that. Does that mean that we're going to cut other services to make room for new parks? Does that mean that we need to find new general fund revenue to pay for that? And related to that is the fact that we are not asking our existing residents to pay the full cost of maintaining the parks that we already have.
 despite the bond measure that Commissioner Fritz championed successfully this last year, we are not maintaining our existing parks. So I think actually there's kind of a fairness question. If we're not going to ask our existing residents to pay enough to maintain the existing parks, does it make sense to charge people buying homes in Portland, new residents, as much as it would take to buy their share of the old system? Yeah.
 Finally, I just want to, I mean, I frankly was not aware how high Parks SDCs already were. And I recognize that this is not a matter of, like, overall increasing them. I think that overall the impact should be to have them about the same. But we charge a lot in terms of Parks SDCs.
 If you assume that people are basically paying off their SDCs over the term of a 30-year mortgage, then somebody buying a 1,700-square-foot home at $11,787 for an SDC would be paying $32 a month for 30 years to build new parks. And last year we suggested asking people to pay at most $12 a month
 to maintain existing streets. And that caused a big discussion and a furor. And I'm kind of puzzled why we would blithely say, yes, somebody should pay $32 a month for 30 years to build new parks, when in another context, $12 a month seemed like something worthy of lots of discussion and argument. Right.
 So, again, although I think that there are several ways in which this methodology is preferable to the old methodology, I'd rather, as the DRAC suggested, take some more time to evaluate this and look at it in the larger context of our overall fee structure and what the impacts will be on housing affordability at various levels. May. Fritz. People move to Portland because of our quality of life.
 And our parks are a huge part of that. I'm very proud of the system that we have and also recognize that there needs to be new capacity to accommodate new growth. This is a fiscally responsible measure which is responsive to state rules on system development charges. On April 15th, we had our staff presentation and public testimony on the parks methodology review. I again thank everybody who testified, wrote letters and emails, and served on the system development task force.
 This is an important program that will help shape our future park system, and I'm going to specifically name those who are on the task force because it's an impressive group, and they put in many, many hours coming to a recommendation which I support. They are Debbie Iona, Rihanna Ansari, Bev Bookin, Darlene Carlson, Aubrey Dixon, Kevin Johnson, Mary Helen Kincaid, Nolan Leinhart, Jim Owens, Jill Sherman, Jim Shillin, Dennis Stocklin, and
 christy white and justin wood and i really appreciate all of those folks also randy young our consultant riley whitcomb who's done amazing work on this at parks director mike abate and deputy director warren jimenez jimenez and patty howard and tim crayle on my staff amongst many others also harry arbuck in the city attorney's office we have heard testimony that resulted in amending the start date for the system development charges to july
 1st of 2016. This delays bringing needed money into the system and it means that although we do have more money certainly than we had over the course of the recession, we don't have enough for all of the identified needs in rapidly expanding neighborhoods. So places like Errol Heights, Park Lane, 150th and Division, the North Pole and Greenway will all need to wait until these system development charges come in.
 We've listened to all of the testimony, considered all of the amendments, and ultimately decided that the methodology is sound, legally defensible, which leads to delays vote. New development should pay its way. No more, no less. For the first time, parks will receive 100% of the true cost of the system.
 Following in the footsteps of three former parks commissioners to my left, I'm very proud of being the parks commissioner to bring that home. In the past, we've discounted the value of parks to our citizens, and we are not doing that in this case. We are saying new development needs to pay its way.
 We did look into the issue that was raised at the hearing of internal conversions of large units to smaller units. Thanks very much to Commissioner Saltzman for highlighting the impact of that action on family-sized units, which are definitely needed. And so we're not going to move forward with any amendment on that issue at this time, but I appreciate it being raised. And again, that needs to go into the wider discussion that Commissioner Fish alluded to.
 Incidentally, I always like speaking after Commissioner Fish with the votes because you bring things together so well and I can just tag along. Very much appreciate all of my colleagues for your feedback and the yes vote from Commissioner Fish and hopefully the mayor. The new methodology not only responds to the needs of our growing city, it also assures that we are collecting the revenue that we should. No more, no less. I believe that most Portlanders support that approach. Bye.
 So for me, there are three big considerations on this decision. One, is the proposed methodology sound?
 been developed in a thoughtful and inclusive way, and I want to echo my colleagues' comments about that. I think the answer to that first question is yes, that this methodology is sound. We had involvement from the development community, from neighborhoods, from park advocates, from disinterested parties, and a qualified consultant that came in and looked at and did the math
 in a way that was not only credible but understandable, which in this world is not always the case. So I think clearly this project passes that test of did the commissioner in charge and her bureau and the community work effectively together to come up with a sound proposal? Yes. Secondly, are we attending to cost? Yes, we are going to have this council-wide look at cost and affordability, and it certainly
 unlike the presidential level of politics as usual around here it will be substantive and it will be the five of us looking at the big picture together and then figuring out how the details fit into that so we do have to attend to cost and it matters and we have a year to look at how this set of fees and
 and others mesh together and affect the cost and availability and affordability of housing, as well as the other forms of development that this applies to. I appreciate the delay in the effective date and the immediate opportunity for the colleges and universities to be able to proceed with projects that don't impact the park system. So those amendments, I think, improved the cost impact of this proposal.
 Finally, the third one is value. We have to balance both what our fees are and how they affect cost, but also what we get for those fees. You know, there was an economist named Ed Whitelaw who came up with a concept called the second paycheck.
 and specifically about Oregon and actually I think specifically about Portland. And that is by living here, we not only get our first paycheck, with which we must be able to afford our housing, don't want to lose sight of that, but we also get our second paycheck. And by coincidence, actually, we've had three examples on the council calendar this morning of what he meant by that. One, Portlanders have access to nature.
 Thus, we have blue herons in the city. That's part of the second paycheck. We get to send our kids to a great local public school system instead of shelling out money for tuition in private schools. That's part of our second paycheck. And so is our park system. I had the privilege of joining Commissioner Fritz at the opening of Connemox Park and hear all these young families just swarming this park.
 they live, many of them, in modest homes in that neighborhood that, again, they have to be able to afford, but they have. And part of their second paycheck is that their kids have access in that neighborhood for the first time to a park they can walk to and where their kids can play. Okay.
 So it's important to remember where these monies get spent, whether it's transportation dollars or parks dollars or any others, and you can see the value proposition when you see that part. So I think on all three of those grounds, that methodology is a good one, and we should proceed and ratify the work that's been done. The cost issues are important, and we're working together on them, and the value proposition is clear that this proposal deserves our support. I appreciate the good work. Aye. Thank you.
 Mayor, the danger of listing people's names is that you forget one, and I want to thank Jeff Schaefer, our amazing financial guru in parks. In nearly two years of being the Parks Commissioner, I don't think there's ever been a question that I've thrown at Jeff that he hasn't been able to answer within hours, if not minutes, and I really appreciate that. Thank you, Jeff. Mayor, could I also just note that I just got a text from the city attorney, City of
 and they are filing an injunction against any further what they call defamatory references to the great city by the bay. I don't know what they're referring to, but we'll have to maybe get some legal advice on that. Ed Lee and I will have to have some kind of arm wrestling contest or something when I go down there next month for the Conference of Mayors. Okay. Thank you, all. Let's move on to the final item for this morning, which is 544. Thank you.
 amend code to eliminate barriers to accessing administrative appeal processes, including establishing a minimum notice requirement and limiting fees charged to initiate an appeal.
 Auditor and our ombudsman are here. Any final questions or comments before we vote on this item? Actually, Mayor and Commissioners, if I may, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ombudsman Sollinger for the hard work she's done on this project and to point out that this is an example of the kind of systemic change that the Ombudsman's office brings to the city. She takes complaint after complaint after complaint,
 and the real value she brings is when she strings those complaints together in a change like we've brought before you today. And I also would like to acknowledge the individuals and the citizens groups that we worked with who helped us clarify our thinking and improve our proposal. And also to thank you all because after we marshaled all of our evidence and people, we felt like we were well received by you all and that hope that you all
 you were a receptive audience, then I would just like to thank you for that. Thank you both. Any questions or comments before we do? And let's take a roll call vote, please. Fish. I want to thank the auditor and the ombudsman. Do we have to change that at some point to ombudsperson? I don't know whether it's gender specific, but I want to thank the auditor and the ombudsman for...
 great work here, both collaborative between the two offices and then with the council. And I sincerely believe that what you have proposed is one of the most significant reforms that's come before council during my tenure on the city council.
 and we can debate the relative impact of things like creating independent budget office or in the future a new oversight body of utilities, all the various things. I think this is one of the single most important reforms that's come forward from both of your offices. And the reason I say that is that I think you've captured a very core value that's important to all Portlanders, and it's access to justice.
 And I had the honor before my service on council of being a lawyer that served on the, I guess, the executive committee of the Campaign for Equal Justice, which was designed with, which was focused on removing barriers to low-income citizens who pursued justice, and particularly around the fact that there was inadequate funding for legal services. So so many people were turned away, and as we know, without a lawyer, it's very hard to get justice. But what struck me about what you've done here is,
 is that you shined a light on a problem which I don't think we collectively understood very well, and that is the two key components of your reform proposal. One is the fact that we have been inconsistent in terms of providing notice to citizens of their rights, and sometimes not giving someone notice is tantamount to handicapping them in this process.
 And just the idea of giving someone notice that they have a right of an appeal and pointing them in the right direction, I think, is fundamental to government fairness. But you also opened our eyes to the fact that the way we calculate the fee structures created significant barriers for people in ways that were quite inequitable. And frankly, I think surprising to all of us. In fact, the common refrain up here throughout this process, frankly, has been we wish we had thought of this earlier.
 because it's such an essential part of government. We talk about the desire to have sunshine, but what prevents good sunshine more than frustrating the ability of average citizens to have their day in court, if you will, their moment to challenge one of our actions? Because after all, when citizens exercise that right, we sometimes learn that we've got it really wrong.
 And without that feedback loop, are we really operating in full sunshine with full accountability? And the fee structure issue was shocking to me when you fully explained it and how we'd allow these very disproportionate costs and fees to essentially be a barrier to people exercising their right to get a fair hearing.
 So again, I think it's one of the most significant reforms that's come forward from both of your offices in the last decade. And I think for those who care about access to justice, it really is a shining moment. And I have to tell you, both as a commissioner and as a former lawyer, I'm very proud of your work on this. And I'm also grateful that you work with us to craft a set of amendments to make sure that the spirit animating this, that is the right of
 frankly, ordinary people to be heard and aggrieved parties to be heard was not taken advantage of by people that might see an advantage just to delay the inevitable. And I think the amendments that you've offered fine-tune what was already an outstanding proposal. I will remember this day because I think you've done something important, and you've done something that I don't think the community fully understood until you've brought it out into full daylight. And that, after all, is the highlight
 hallmark of what an auditor and an ombudsman should do working together so many thanks for your good work and i'm exceptionally proud today to vote aye saltzman uh thank you again auditor and ombudsman for uh shining a light on this issue and and fixing it appreciate it hi novik
 I agree with Commissioner Fish that this is one of the most important reforms that I've seen since I've been here and it's also inspired Commissioner Fish to make one of the best speeches I've heard him give so I can do no better than to second every word that he said. Aye. Fritz. A while ago I looked into the question of the name Ombudsman Commissioner Fish and my understanding is it's like human, it just happens to end in M-A-N but it's gender neutral. I'm getting a nod from our Ombudsman so it's one that I don't
 change to something else like I do for, I never refer to chairman or chairwoman, I just say the chair anymore. Very nice and gender neutral, just like commissioner and auditor are very gender neutral. I love it. Thank you very much to Auditor Ho Caballero and Margie Schollinger for highlighting this issue and working on a solution. Also Dante James in the Office of Equity and Human Rights for partnering on working through it.
 It's definitely a basic equity and due process issue, and charging $1,300 to appeal a city decision that may cost much less is clearly unacceptable. And yet we haven't done anything about it before now. So it's great to see this change. We will need to watch closely to see the impacts of the change, to see how many appeals result, and whether we need to do more general funding of the hearings officer.
 It's wonderful to see the city auditor and the ombudsman seeing a problem and not just calling it out, but also taking action to fix it in a collaborative and thoughtful process. And it marks a new era, hopefully, of the way that we're going to do things using our independently elected auditor to help be our conscience and with the emphasis on help. Bye.
 It's nice to be able to pause and recognize the good work that's been done here. We don't often do that and we always should, so thank you for the work well done. My thoughts about this, in addition to the good comments we've heard from my colleagues, are that there are things that people in Portland think are normal and a little while from now when they've forgotten about the fact that you made this change, this will just be one of those normal things.
 neighborhood associations get to appeal land use decisions without paying a fee. You get to walk in here and advocate on a budget item and be heard and actually change the budget. You get to remonstrate against a local improvement district and get the council to say, wait a minute, we're going to stop and think about that one again and maybe adjust the costs. And people in Portland are used to that level of access and that it doesn't discriminate based on your means. So.
 So this will fit into that background and will for people become background. Well, of course. But, of course, it wasn't always so, and you were the ones that figured that out, and we appreciate that very much. Thank you. Aye. And we're recessed until 2 p.m. Are you ready? Good afternoon. I am convening this meeting of the Budget Committee of the City of Portland. Would you please call the roll?
 Fish? Here. Seltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Good afternoon everyone. Andrew and Jeremy are prepared to walk us through the decision that we have this afternoon on the city budget and then we have the Portland Development Commission budget after that. We do the agenda items? Yes please would you read the first one?
 Item 545, approval of the fiscal year 2015-16 budget for the City of Portland. Mr. Scott.
 so today uh city council will be approving the budget um for fiscal year 15-16 and there are a few uh steps and processes we go through all these are mandated under state law so it is a little bit byzantine but we'll try and walk you through it um the first thing we're going to do is have a hearing on state revenue sharing again this is required in order to in order to receive our state revenue sharing um
 So we'll have that hearing and any testimony on that. At the end of that process, we will move into the approved budget process. And that has a couple of different steps today.
 First of all, the mayor is going to propose a motion to consider changes to his proposed budget. And those changes are what was filed last week, and it should be what you have in front of you and what's known as the change memo. And so there will be, again, a motion and a second to go ahead and consider those changes to his proposed budget.
 At that point, are those, is that titled consensus amendments? That is the general fund piece, yes. There are other changes as well, which I'll walk you through when we get to that point, yes. After that, essentially, and that gets this on the table as the budget committee for discussion. At that point, the mayor can ask for whether there are any individual amendments from council that still need to be made. Any amendments need to be moved and seconded.
 And then, again, voted on, each amendment would be voted on. After all of those amendments are voted on, then there will be a motion to approve budget adjustments as amended. And, again, that's how we get to the final approved budget. But prior to that, there will be a moment for public testimony, a final vote, and then we'll go ahead and do the tax levies. So, again, we do it every year, but there are a number of steps we need to go through. And with that, if there are no questions, Mayor, we'll go into the—
 Opening a hearing to discussing possible uses of state revenue sharing. This hearing is being held by the City Council of Fort One in compliance with the provisions of state revenue sharing regulations under ORS 221.770. It is to allow citizens to comment on the possible use of these funds in conjunction with the annual budget process.
 As proposed for council adoption, the fiscal year 2015-16 budget anticipates receipts totaling $16,115,255 from state revenue sharing. As has been the case in prior years, it is proposed that this revenue be allocated in equal parts to support fire prevention and police patrol services. Is there anyone here today that wishes to be heard on this subject, that is, how we spend state revenue sharing dollars? Thank you, Tim.
 No one signed up. No one here to speak on that item. So therefore, I'll close the hearing on the possible uses of state revenue sharing. And now it's time to take up a motion on the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the memo approval of the budget for the city of Portland. So moved. Second. Second.
 Further discussion on potential changes? So at this point, I generally sort of walk through what the major changes are. And again, I'll be relatively concise.
 in terms of that. But what you see and what was filed in terms of the change memo, and you can see these listed in attachments B and C of the document, there are a few different things. There are a number of Bureau technical adjustments, and so you'll see a lot of lines in here. As Bureaus, once the Mayor makes his proposed decisions, Bureaus can do certain things within certain parameters just to move money around within their budgets, existing budgets. And so you see some of that happening in here as well.
 There are also a number of overhead adjustments. We go back, and based on the decisions that are in the proposed budget, we notify the overhead-paying bureaus whether there's been any change in the amount that they owe. And so you'll see a number of changes in here, most of them relatively small-dollar amounts, where those bureaus are adjusting for that overhead change as well.
 Another item that a number of these line items involve is carryover. Again, in the spring bump from a couple of weeks ago, you took some actions to allow bureaus to carry over funding for certain projects. Once that's been approved in the spring bump, which it has been, we then appropriate those funds as part of the approved budget process so that bureaus have that funding starting July 1st. And so, again, there are a number of appropriations in here for carryover.
 And then there are also FTE changes. In net, there are a total of three additional FTE involving C.
 seven different bureaus. There's an additional FTE in BES, half of an FTE in planning sustainability, one FTE in Office of Equity and Human Rights, one in facilities within OMF, one in BHR within OMF, half of an FTE within PBOT, and then minus two of an FTE in parks having to do with the seasonal maintenance worker conversion.
 So again, that nets out to a total of three additional FTEs as part of the approved budget. And then the final piece that I'll spend a little bit more time on are just the general fund changes. And in front of you, you have the document Mayor's Consensus Amendments, which is just a concise summary of what those changes are. So just very briefly, the Out of the Mud Initiative was reduced on an ongoing basis by about $190,000.
 The Gateway Legal Services, which had been included in the proposed budget one time, is now shifted over to the ongoing side. The same is true with the Southeast Works program. The Park Seasonal Maintenance Worker Conversion package was removed for $73,500. ONI's budget was increased by $230,000. And in PDC, the Vose Day Labor Center was funded ongoing at $30,000.
 On the one-time side, general fund, again, PBOT out of the mud was reduced by about $250,000. You'll see the Gateway Legal Services and Southeast Works offsets since those were moved over to the ongoing side of the ledger. There's $10,000 for a Benson Bubbler, which I believe is going to our sister city in China. $30,000 one time for Zenger Farms. $100,000 one time for the Rose Festival. $150,000 for the Rail Heritage Foundation.
 The next three line items in the Bureau of Plant Sustainability, the river access, the Lansu Chinese Garden reflecting pool repair, and the Charles Jordan roof.
 Those have all been removed from general fund because those are going to be funded from TIF resources. And again, specifically, $603,000 for the Charles Jordan roof is coming from contingency in the interstate URA. $638,000 is coming from contingency in the downtown waterfront URA. And $150,000 is coming from contingency in the central east side URA.
 Included in this, again, these changes to the proposed budget, $500,000 for PDC's inclusive startup fund, and $891,000 for PDC's proposal for a community development fund, and finally $240,000 for safe routes to schools, which in addition to the $60,000 that was originally in the proposed gets that up to the $300,000 ask.
 Those are the high-level summaries? And those are all incorporated in Attachment B now, right? That is correct. So all the adjustments that are attached there to the budget memo under Attachment B include these changes from last week. Yes, they do. And then the final thing, and you'll see also Attachment D budget notes, there are some wording changes on those budget notes, but no major or material changes.
 Okay. Questions for Andrew or Jeremy about the amendments to the budget that we now have in front of us and the motion before us? Is this the attachment B in our document is the current version? Yes. I see VAWS listed as under ongoing general fund. I thought you just said it was PDC.
 Yeah, it's PDC's now funding the Lansu Chinese Garden, half the river access project, and the Charles Jordan roof out of interstate, out of renewal funds, and that allows them to utilize the general fund dollar amounts of $500,000 for the inclusive startup fund and $891,000 for the community development fund. In other words, they displaced those dollars with TIF dollars and TIFs.
 $891 plus $500 equals $603 plus $638 plus $150. So that's a wash. The VOS money continues. We've been paying general funds to PDC. It's just administered through PDC. And it makes it ongoing rather than one time. Yeah, it's lodged in PDC's budget, but it is general fund.
 Mr. Fritz, on the Lanzu Chinese Garden, the net effect of this capital expenditure will be to fortify the water feature. There will be fewer leaks and, therefore, a lower water bill. Are you prepared to make the Water Bureau a hole for that? No.
 It's Conservation Commissioner, which you're urging us to do. And that is a bigger picture problem. A great peril to my bureau, by the way. Yes. On that issue, though, I want to clarify that both the Lansu Chinese Gardens and the Charles Jordan Roof, which had previously been specified for general fund money through parks, it's now going from tax increment financing through PDC. I just need to clarify that that's a direct –
 funding at, it doesn't require IGAs and PDC to manage those projects. It's simply a pass-through via PDC, which will come to Parks for us to manage those projects. I assume it would be a pass-through. It would still be through an IGA, just for PDC to give the money, but Parks would assume the capital assets and be in charge of those projects, yes. But it would still require an IGA to get the funding from PDC. Transfer the funds, but not to, but your point is Parks should still manage the projects. Yeah, even the IGA is extracurricular.
 It takes more time to get that done, so that's a bit challenging. Well, we have six weeks. Yes, we will. Five weeks. I know that the TIF that goes to PHB is subject to an IGA. It just might be a requirement of any money that they don't directly administer. That's right. We probably have a pretty good form we could update. Yeah. As long as we're clear that it's a simple IGA to just grant the money to Parks to then manage the projects.
 That's your understanding. That's the understanding of the council is that the funds are going to be transferred from PDC to Parks under an IGA and that Parks will administer the projects. Thank you. Okay. Further questions, clarifications, concerns about the amendment before us? Regarding budget notes, City Budget Office, when do we need to make amendments to those? Yes.
 Amendments to budget notes can happen today. They can also happen in the adopted budget process, and two ways for that to happen, the mayor will be filing the adopted budget after TSEC holds their hearing, and so we could make changes in what gets filed. You could also make changes on the floor of the adopted budget when adopting the budget. And that wouldn't delay the actual vote on the adopted budget?
 Okay, great. Thank you. That worked. Yeah, there's a couple of budget notes, colleagues, that my staff and I had only just noticed regarding funding for a couple of parks projects that I'm going to be working with the mayor on to.
 clear up. Yeah, I think it's actually incumbent on all of us now to go back and look through. I'll pledge to do that as well, the actual text of those budget notes, and make sure that we're comfortable with what the words on the page are. We've been focusing on the numbers on the page. Now we need to check on the words. And also, I will have at least one additional one. We've had some discussions at the work session about, for instance, the $1.9 million allocation for the World Championships.
 So there will be a budget note that will say if that money comes from other sources, then any additional general fund would go back into contingency. So something like that. There's a couple of kind of tidying up loose ends that we'll need to do at the next session. And that would be the adoption of the budget? On the 18th. And, Andrew, would you remind me, when's the last time when we were voting to adopt the budget that we made changes to any of the line items?
 I'd have to go back. In most years, there have been minor changes. Not every year. More like Scribner's errors type things? Both technical and drawing money from contingency or moving decision packages around. Yeah. Well, Mayor, I related to you earlier how going back to our last budget hearing, there was testimony that kind of
 set a light off in my mind about Boys and Girls Clubs as being an ally in providing programmed activities for youth, particularly starting this summer. So it's my understanding that there will be a budget note that directs $150,000 a year out of the $2 million ongoing for parks to go to Boys and Girls Clubs.
 here's the way I understood that but I'm happy that Boys and Girls Club has come forward with the proposal the Parks Bureau developed the package for the community centers and teen recreation effort and the
 The items that are costed for the city parks bureau to provide directly are total about 1.7 million. Then there's $300,000 available per year for partners to fund their ability to make that program work better. There were no pre-scripted recipients of that program.
 those funds but the idea was people like the Boys and Girls Club would come forward and say if we were to be partnered with you we could provide this much in in-kind services or that much in staff support and we would ask for this much in city funding in order to do that so assuming that the Boys and Girls Club are coming forward with a proposal that fits those kinds of guidelines and they're not much more elaborate than that at this stage
 And that we obviously have three hundred thousand dollars a year available Then I would be comfortable with committing half of that to the Boys and Girls Clubs if again they've got a proposal that Magnifies or amplifies our well, I think I
 I have great confidence they'll come through on that end. And I think we all recognize there are Boys and Girls Clubs located in areas where we are really deficient in community centers. Right, that's a great attraction. Selwood and Lentz, for instance. And Rockwood. Yeah, and Rockwood. We wouldn't want to presuppose that they are the designated fundee when there's SEI and various other community organizations, too, that may want to make proposals to us.
 I think we want all those folks to come forward with proposals, but again, they certainly make a good case. So I guess I'd like to stop short of guaranteeing them a portion of that, but understand that they are a great partner and that if they come forward with a proposal that fits within our parameters, that they're in a good position to be one of those partners that gets funded. But no one else has any call on that money either at this point. Mayor, on the question of...
 criteria, I would not support limiting Boys and Girls Club or anyone else from applying just because they may be in an area that's already within a catchment of an existing community center. I think of something like the Boys and Girls Club at Rosa Parks Elementary School. They may have a separate independent program.
 that complements what Charles Jordan Community Center is doing, that technically doesn't fill a gap in an area that doesn't have a community center but may otherwise have merit. So I would hope that there's not a geographic exclusion in terms of whatever criteria are established. Right, and I want to give the Commissioner and the Bureau a chance to develop criteria that are more –
 better articulated than what I've just done here because, again, we've believed from the beginning that this program would work better if we could incent our partners to do more and that some of them would need funding in order to do that. Others would, for example, be able to provide mentors and coaches but just need a gym to play in. They don't necessarily need funding from us. So it was sort of a stone soup proposition here that we create this program.
 vehicle of the community centers being more available to teen programming, we provide some of it ourselves and then we ask our partners to step up and again amplify that effort. So the $300,000 a year will be for community partners but they don't necessarily have to be offering their programs in the community centers? Correct. Is that correct?
 Right, and Mayor, it's my understanding you'd be taking the lead on that engaging of the community partners. Yeah, I'm happy to do the outreach to them, but I obviously want you and the Bureau to sign off on how do we judge and weigh applications from partners. Evidently something that we'll be working on together. Yeah. The other thing with that regard that just was brought to my attention by the City Budget Office.
 summarizing what each bureau did get in the budget and what we didn't, was that we didn't fund the security measures at the community centers that Parks had asked for, the lockdown and security cameras. So we may need to take a look at that. I'm not sure what's in the particular facilities that we've designated as these outreach areas, but it would seem prudent to make sure that we have that.
 the physical infrastructure to manage them as well, and that might be something that we would look at. MR. Yeah. MS. It wasn't physical infrastructure included in the package, but there was additional staffing for rangers included in the package so that we would have people infrastructure there to make sure that we're attending to safety.
 because we're gonna have a lot more kids and some of them at-risk kids in the buildings that's great exactly we want them there but we also want it to be safe and commissioner Fish took the lead when he was in charge of Parks by installing cameras and locked down capacity at some of the community centers so I'm just flagging that obviously this great concept that you came up with just a couple of months ago is still being fleshed out that might be something I know that Parks is not going to have much of an ending fund balance at all
 So we may need to look at other bureaus to help provide that if necessary. Commissioner, having suffered through a summer where there was actually some shootings approximate to North Portland community centers, I believe the view of parks at the time was you needed both.
 You needed a physical presence as a deterrent, but you also needed cameras and other tools as backups. And the combination was designed to discourage people from engaging in certain behavior on site and adjacent to the – but it still didn't prevent people from doing foolish things like discharging weapons.
 and bullets actually going through a community center. So we'll need to look at that before we open for business. I'm really open to that. Again, we've had, I think now I asked on the elevator in the police bureau this morning, I believe we've had 66 gang violence incidents so far this year. We had another one last night. The total keeps going up. We did have already this year an incident where someone was firing down the street in the general direction of the East Portland Community Center through a crowd of teenagers.
 So the physical infrastructure question is a serious one, and I'm not inclined to be miserly about putting the right equipment in place, but we also need, as soon as we start this program, to have more rangers and staffing to support it. So it's both. So I guess, not to belay this topic, but summer starts in about a week and a half, and the appropriations for the next year don't begin until July 1st. Do we have the...
 Do we have our act together that come summer, June 12th or whatever, when school's out, we're going to have programs going? No, not that quickly. But I think that assuming the council approves this budget today and the Parks Bureau knows this is coming, then I think the instruction to them should be pretty clear to make preparations to do this as fast as you can. Remember, this is an ongoing program.
 And it's not just about this summer, but it's this summer too. And so the point is get started in providing this enhanced level of recreation and make it free to the kids that need it most and start lighting up each of these activities as quickly as you can. It doesn't take them very long at all to say what was –
 fee supported is now free. So every Friday and Saturday night at these four community centers, teenagers, is now free. That's just an announcement with some additional staffing. So some of this stuff can be implemented quicker than others.
 Well, particularly since the Mayor has graciously and carefully said that the staffing is going to be permanent positions rather than seasonal staff. Clearly, we need people who are going to be experienced and good at what they do. So, no, we can't hire them by next week. Yeah. Mayor, I just want you to know that when Commissioner Fritz says graciously does something, I put that in the $250,000 to $500,000 cost with or without a budget note. So, I just – Your silence, I think, is a sentence.
 graciousness is fairly expensive. And the other thing related to parks, I want to make sure that we have funded is the period between when the meal program, summer meal program typically ends and when school begins in the fall, that gap is now permanently funded by parks. I believe the answer to that is yes. I think so too, but I'll check and get back to you. It used to be. Yes. So I'm hoping it's still. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 I'll shut up. Sorry. Other questions or, again, things to flag like that that we may need further feedback from the staff on? Okay. Then let's take a roll call vote on the motion to amend. Actually, at this point, Mayor, you open it up for any amendments. I thought it was after. Okay. Sorry. Now that you've got this on the table and we've described it. Okay. So a motion for any additional amendments in addition to the motion that's already before us. Andrew, when do we take testimony? Okay.
 A testimony will be after all the amendments are on the table. Actually, after whether if they've been voted on at that point, and then we would take testimony of the entire packet. We don't vote to put those amendments on the table before we take testimony.
 Yeah, actually you do. Okay. In this process as the budget committee. Don't we vote on the first one that we just did? You actually don't. All right. I'll follow your instructions. It's a slightly different process than normal. I want to follow state law. Because, again, you're a budget committee right now and not city council. Got it. Okay. So are there any additional motions for amendments at this time?
 Okay. Hearing none, then we should take a vote to approve those amendments. So at this point, a motion and a vote to approve the budget amendments in attachments B, C, and D. That's been moved and seconded. And later we'll be voting on the whole thing. Yes. Okay. So, Carla, roll call on approving those amendments.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. I'm sorry, Fritz. Fritz. Hales. Aye. Okay. Don't breeze, Pastor. Okay, now. At this point, public testimony on. Is there any additional, is there any public testimony on the budget and its proposed amendments at this time? I have three people signed up. Okay, please. Come on up. Craig. Sorry, Craig Rogers, Steve Dottier.
 And Veronica Bernier. Okay, come on up. I wondered when you were finally going to testify, Craig, so I'm holding your fire. It's good to see you all. You too, welcome. I'm always excited to be here. And it's my understanding that your number one priority is public safety. Put your name in the record, Craig. My name is Craig Rogers. It's public safety. And with that in mind, I'd like to make it a point to thank Commissioner Steve Novick for saving lives.
 And let me give you an example. The closest to where I live where there's something very significant to me that you've done is 113th and Stark. You have a crosswalk there. And every time you and Leah have done that Abbey Road album cover walk across the street, I really appreciate it. On one side of Stark you have a church. On the other side you have a park. And next to the park is a grade school.
 There's a lot of pedestrian traffic there. You'll never know the lives that you saved, but you have. And I really want to make it a point to thank you for that. And you and I, last summer, we attended Emerging Local Government Leaders at the Elliott Center. And at one point, you came up to the podium, and you leaned in, and you said, let's talk about love. Well, I don't recall exactly where you were. It was a private conversation. Not anymore.
 I don't recall exactly where you're going with that, but stay with me. I'm going to help you with that. Because some of the most significant parts of movies are the last lines. And here's a significant line to me of one of my favorite movies. The house and grounds are left to the city of Gotham, on condition that they shall be used for one purpose and one purpose only. The housing and care of the city's at-risk and orphaned children. Well, keeping these community centers open...
 That's your love right there in this budget because those are at-risk children that are going to have a place to go to. And I was here when a gentleman testified about his grandmother and then the grandson, and she's going to be so happy that he's going to have a place to go. So I really want to thank you for that, and it really means a lot to me and the rest of the city.
 And the shiny thing is that you've got to be a real track nut to subscribe to Track and Field News. You can just disregard that my name's on the mailing label. But right here, if you open this up, well, right on the cover is a gal from U of O. And Oregon 2016 World Indoor Championships for the...
 Carla, may I ask if you could give this to our mayor, and perhaps you can pass it on to Gail. Yes. And I've already read it. It's the most recent issue. That's all I have to say. Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. Thank you.
 Steve welcome thank you my name is Steve Dotterer and I'm here testifying for the architectural heritage center and we would like to comment on the planning and sustainability budget for this year first of all we want to strongly support the inclusion of the single family study the infill design guidelines and standards that are proposed in the budget and thank the mayor for that
 And in carrying out that work program, we believe that it's important to have a full-time historic resources staff person in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability in order to identify those buildings that are historic and also to know the policies and programs that can be used to protect our neighborhood heritage.
 Finally, we ask that you consider initiating the historic resources inventory in the coming year. We know that this will be a multi-year effort, but it's been 30 years since the historic resources inventory was updated. And what that means is that there's a whole new generation of buildings that are eligible, that is, buildings built between 1930 and 1965.
 and the city has grown so that nearly a third of its area, all of East Portland, has been annexed, and it wasn't considered when that inventory was initially done, so there's a large area that's underrepresented. And then finally, the definition of historic has expanded, and at the time in 1980, it was pretty much architectural and famous people, and now it's a lot more about ethnic and immigrant communities, and a broader definition of...
 what historic is. And so I think when you begin the HRI, you'll be looking at a broader community that better represents what Portland is today. And we just think it'd be useful to get started on that now because we know that it's a multi-year effort. Again, thank you very much. Thank you. Nice to have you back. Okay. Others want to speak? Okay. Then I will close the hearing. Correct?
 Not yet. Not yet? Nope. Undo that. So the conclusion of the testimony, now you go ahead and council will vote to approve the budget as amended. Okay. And then we'll go ahead and do the tax levies. So is there a motion to approve the budget as amended? So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call. Fish? Well, a couple of preliminary comments, Mayor. The first is we had a question at the beginning of this budget process whether it would be
 more difficult or less difficult to make a budget when we were facing relative prosperity rather than relative austerity and I think the early voting on that was that it might actually be harder to craft a budget when we had plenty versus a cut budget.
 And there's some history behind that. And I think the verdict on that is that this was easier, but that's primarily because I think we had a very good process.
 I want to acknowledge that at the outset, and I also want to acknowledge that this is the year in which the Saltzman Rule kicked in with a vengeance. Dan has historically said that we're always sort of either underestimating the downside or the upside. We blew through a milestone this year when we got to about $50 million of surplus. So the Saltzman Rule is alive and well, and the standard has been set. I want to address three things about the budget process. First,
 and next steps. I really give a lot of credit to everyone involved in crafting this budget for what I think has been a very good process, extensive public involvement, great conversations among colleagues and with the staff. And frankly, Commissioner Fritz, as I think about some of the improvements to our budgeting,
 I go back to a fateful decision to create a truly independent budget office and what we hope that would mean in terms of good communication and transparency of this process and I think it has continued to bear fruit. So Andrew, to you and your team, congratulations and thank you for the great service you do during this process. I also want to just acknowledge that I think the introduction of the new work session which follows the presentation of the Mayor's proposed budget
 is a good addition to our process. I hope the council embraces it, because I heard nothing but positive comments both from my colleagues and from the citizen budget advisors that were at the table. I think Chris Smith talked about we used to have a black box and this brought some sunshine to it. But more than that, I think it gave us in a public setting a chance to have a transparent conversation about potential changes to the mayor's budget and initial reaction. I think the public likes to see us do that work
 in the light of day, and they have typically historically been excluded from those conversations. So I hope it becomes a regular feature in our budget. On the substance, Mayor, I want to just compliment you for the priorities that you established for this budget. And I think the focus on basic services, particularly around transportation and major maintenance across a number of bureaus, was the right thing.
 approach. And that combined with the discipline we showed in adopting a policy that said 50% of the one-time money would go to basic services, I think put us on track to allocate really a substantial portion of this budget to where I think we were hearing that people wanted us to invest. And so I compliment the mayor for his leadership in bringing us along, and I think the priorities in this budget were the right ones.
 There's a number of things in this budget that I especially appreciate. I appreciate the new money for housing. It would not be in my nature to say it's enough because we're in the middle of a crisis. And so I would have said that even if you allocated $50 million. But it is a substantial down payment in a budget where we had surplus money.
 And I hope as a council we continue to make those kinds of robust investments out of surplus. And in particular, I hope that we build up the housing investment fund that Commissioner Saltzman has championed. I think the investments in healthy families and healthy kids, particularly in light of some of the challenges we have in parts of our community, is the right one. And I look forward to working with the council to get the parks piece right and to work out those details. And I also, Mayor, strongly support the investment in 3-D PhDs.
 I hope it becomes a tradition of the council that every year we pick one great community partnership to invest in that's helping students and families in an educational setting prosper. The investments we made in David Douglas' early childhood development are just staggering and that whole program is doing well. I think 3 to PhD will be a similar shining star in our strategy.
 I, for one, think the investment in track and field is a good one. And I remember when Gail first raised it a couple years ago, ahead of the lobbying and the travel and everything else, the one thing that our sports authority people once told me is one of our challenges in the state is that we have such an abundance of great sporting opportunities.
 And as a result, it's harder for us to have a clear identity because we are so good in so many things. We're a great place to come golf. We're a great place for track and field. We're a great place for soccer. And in some ways, that works against us because there's so many things for which we are noted for.
 And I think track and field, particularly because of the proximity to great companies like Nike and Adidas, and also because of the great traditions in Eugene and elsewhere, I think track and field is the next big catch for us. So I support those investments.
 I'm pleased with most of the changes that you have proposed following discussions with your colleagues, the right budget for ONI, the additional funding for ORF, and I want to just take a moment to thank all the members of the board at the Oregon Rail Heritage Foundation who have raised almost $4.5 million to, in essence, create a home for our steam locomotives. And it makes me proud to live in a community where citizens step up to solve our problems so conspicuously. Thank you.
 I'm really pleased that we have put EPAP, the East Portland Action Plan, on stable funding, and we don't just every year now come back and see that at risk. And frankly, there's a number of other things that I'm very pleased with. There's one area that I wish I had been able to have be better in terms of advocacy, and I think I fell short. And in this budget and at a time of prosperity, we're actually taking a small cut in the RAC budget of a little over $100,000, and I regret that.
 because I think it is, we made a commitment during the lean years to continue to fund RAC, and I think to cut RAC in a year in which we have $50 million of surplus is a mistake. But I understand that there's work to be done to actually create a stronger foundation of support for investments in the arts, particularly in light of the arts tax, and understanding which program funds what. And I will be taking that up in the months to come.
 Overall, Mayor, I have to say I think this has been one of the most satisfying budget exercises that I've been a part of on the council, maybe partly because we had surplus to divide. But I think it's also because the council, through your leadership, set the right priorities, and I think it has been largely a collegial exercise to get to this moment.
 And so I want to thank you and all my colleagues for this process. I want to thank the professional staff, and I want to thank my team of Sonia and Jim in particular for all the work they've done, and of course the citizens that have come forward and helped us every step of the way. Today I'm proud to support this budget, and I vote aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank all of us, my colleagues, and the budget office and all the bureaus and all of our staffs and our public for helping shape a great budget, and it's
 Definitely helps when we have such tremendous growth occurring in our city that we can really tap into this and translate it into investments that will make a difference in people's lives, whether it's infrastructure or teen programs to keep kids busy. So this is good work from everybody, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Novick.
 I also would like to thank Andrew and his team and thank my bureau directors, Carmen Rouleau and Lisa Turley and Leah Treat and their staffs for their work in this process, and my staff, especially Katie Shriver, who's taken point on budget issues. I want to underline today that this budget includes
 the greatest general fund investment in transportation in 30 years. In 1985-86, the general fund allocation of transportation was $13.3 million, which adjusted for inflation is slightly above the $29 million that we're allocating today. Ever since then, the transportation general fund allocation has been dramatically lower.
 which, among other things, means that Earl Blumenauer, never on the city council, saw this kind of general fund investment in transportation.
 So I feel very, very lucky to be Transportation Commissioner on a council that has this kind of commitment to transportation, a council that recognizes that what we get from the gas tax and parking revenues is not sufficient to meet our maintenance and safety needs. So I just wanted to say that I'm very grateful to my colleagues. Thank you very much. Fritz? Well, thanks to Mayor Hales for making this a very collaborative budget process, and it's
 important to get to five, especially on something as important to this. And I appreciate that, particularly Josh Alpert on your staff, who's been doing shuttle diplomacy and working out kinks and everything else in between, and has done a great service to the city of Portland. Thank you to each of my colleagues. When all five of us work together, we do our best work.
 particularly when guided by great staff who are giving us objective knowledge. So thank you to Andrew and the entire City Budget Office team. I think we have created an excellent process where citizens feel heard. In fact, citizens are heard. And I agree with Commissioner Fish that the work session was another addition. I would encourage us all to get back to our budget advisory committees in our bureaus to let them know what the final decisions were and why, and to continue to engage –
 Bureau advisory committees throughout the year so that our citizens are with us watching over every penny. Thanks to everybody who participated in the budget forums and to Resolutions Northwest for facilitating those.
 Thank you to my bureau directors, Mike Abate and Paul Scarlett, and also to Dante James of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, who I thought was a very valuable addition, sitting at the table giving his expertise, and Amalia Alicrond-Demaris, who is in charge of neighborhood involvement, which I think, as with the city budget office and the Office of Equity and Human Rights, I see the Office of Neighborhood Involvement serving all of us, and I appreciate Amalia's input into this budget.
 I want to repeat what Commissioner Novick just said, $29 million in this year's budget for transportation. So thanks to Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick for spending much of last year highlighting the challenges of infrastructure maintenance, particularly in transportation. As we all know, parks and housing and emergency management also have huge deficits today.
 And yet we have wisely allocated the bulk of the extra money to transportation in recognition that our citizens are not going to accept the need for more funding if we're not allocating our current funding wisely. And I believe we are spending taxpayers' money wisely in these investments.
 i'm very proud of the policy that the council passed this earlier this spring allocating 50 percent of any one-time money and ending fund balance to infrastructure maintenance in transportation parks and emergency preparedness which since we have 36 million in one-time funds that means means that 18 million is budgeted for crucial safety needs and maintenance rates or rather including 12 million for
 transportation projects with 122nd Avenue receiving over $3.3 million in paving funds and an additional $4.7 million for safety improvements. We are continuing to invest in areas of the city that have long been lacking in services, and we are prioritizing that. Even with relatively scarce resources, I think it's easy to forget when you have a
 budget surplus of 30 so-called surplus of 36 million the hundreds of millions of dollars worth of needs in all over the city in the four major areas and so we will we're not done yet very grateful that thanks to the 50 policy we do are receiving funds in parks for the charles jordan community center roof the mount scott heating system the zither pond at the lansu chinese garden which i was previously forgot was called zither and i think that's an excellent name
 The Scavone Stadium lighting, Willamette Park dredging, and Forest Park culvert repair, all really crucial maintenance projects for our parks infrastructure. As I mentioned, there are a couple of budget notes, one for Mount Scott and one for the Scavone Stadium lighting, that are of concern. And I'll talk with the mayor about those and hopefully get those addressed before the approved budget vote.
 I am delighted with the right budget for Oney, and thank you so much to everybody who wrote in with personal stories about what that means to you.
 180,000 goes to the diversity and civic leadership program, which the Harvard Kennedy School recognized this spring or last month as one of the top 10 innovations in public engagement in government in their innovations in American government awards. This was a competition with 500 entrants and we were in the top 2% with the diversity and civic leadership program.
 When Commissioner Hales asked me to be on the Task Force for Neighborhood Involvement back in 94-95, we figured out what's necessary in the neighborhood involvement system, and that is to fund programs which previously had not had enough attention, particularly diversity and civic leadership, people with disabilities, and youth. And that's what this Right Budget for ONI does,
 20 years ago we knew what the answer was. We're finally in a position where there's a mayor who's willing to commit to funding those needs.
 So in addition to the money for the diversity and civic leadership partner, including an extra partner to be fairly apportioned by with a competitive process to decide who the new partner is going to be, there's 30,000 for neighborhood small grants, which you give citizens $1,000 or maybe even 500 bucks. And it's amazing what they can do in partnership with the different folks in their community who might never go to a neighborhood meeting, but would love to show up to a meeting.
 create a community garden or a booth or a kiosk or a food program for some of their needy neighbors. So that's terrific. And also the $10,000 for the Youth Commission and $10,000 for Connecting Communities for people with disabilities, experiencing disabilities. Those are really important programs, and I appreciate your investment in people as well as projects and things. I'm very happy that the
 Parks is receiving funds for fountain maintenance, not because I'm a particularly big fan of the fountains, although I think they're really great. It's a continuation of making sure that rate payer dollars pay for the rate funded portions of the budget and taxpayer general fund dollars fund other things. Because the mayor chose to allocate money for fountain maintenance,
 Buckman Pool and Selwood Community Center are no longer at risk. They are in the ongoing budget.
 And I'm very glad that we won't be having that discussion, at least until we get into a further discussion of what do community centers look like in the 21st century? And are there some new ways of looking at the functions of a community center that might not involve tens of millions of dollars for a new pool? There might be some other creative ways of doing things. And certainly the little pool at Buckman is necessary until we can fund the inner pool.
 Southeast Community Centre and the Selwood Community Centre provides a lot of very cherished services.
 I agree with Commissioner Fish that the ongoing funding for the East Portland Action Plan is very satisfying and great work on their part. Also, the $250,000 for Gateway Green, which furthers a community-driven mountain biking effort, which will match nicely with the other efforts, the other work that the mayor is leading on mountain biking opportunities there.
 We're looking forward to working together on the youth initiatives in the community center. It's not well defined as yet, but we will work hard to get it so. And we're looking for partners. So if those are watching and wondering what could it be, what might it be, join the conversation because we can work it out together. There will be a couple of budget notes.
 In addition to the ones I already mentioned, one on the indoor track funds that we will be approaching Travel Portland and others to see if we can get some money from other sources to supplement those, to replace the general fund dollars. And if that's the case, we'll put the general fund money back into the contingency. There are some huge...
 expenditures that we know are coming along. We've worked very hard this budget year to get $15 an hour for direct city contractors and for all full-time city workers. We still have more than 2,000.
 parks workers who do not make $15 an hour. We have our contracts with entities like the Pioneer Courthouse Square, whose custodians don't make $15 an hour. There's various other elements that we, even without the legislature taking action on raising the minimum wage, that we can do if we have the discipline and the funding to be able to direct money to those in our community.
 Part of the reason that they can't afford housing is because they don't make enough in their 40-hour-a-week or 60-hour-a-week or 80-hour-a-week jobs. And so we're not done yet, but I concur with my colleagues. It's really much more pleasant to be looking at where to allocate new money wisely rather than to looking at where the cuts would be least painful as has been in the past. So thank you to all. Hi. Hales. Hales.
 Well, I'm very proud of this budget and the good work that we've all done together to draft it and get it to this point here today. Budgets are values expressed in dollars. They're also expressed in words, as we try to do here, but budgets are where we put our values into line items of dollars, in this case public money.
 And I think one of the reasons why this budget has been a successful process is that there are some strong shared values on this council that I think reflects those in the community that we heard from some folks eloquently about today and that we heard during the hearings. And those values of basic services and housing and public safety and kids, really the themes of this budget, are expressed in dollars in this budget.
 And so I want to thank my colleagues for being clear about what their values and priorities are and for our ability to work together as a board to get to a shared understanding of where we should focus our work and our priorities over the next year.
 I also want to echo some comments that my colleagues have made here about the validity of this process. One of my favorite parts of the budget process in the last few years have been the groups of New Portlanders who come to the budget hearings, many of them participating for the first time in any kind of democratic process. We've all seen those moments and seeing those folks both participate and be influential
 is a powerful moment for me to see them come in and say, this is what I would like for my community and for my kids and for my family and for my future, and have it show up in what we actually do is such a validation that the democratic process works in our city. And I'm very proud of that. I'm very proud of some long-term commitments that we've made in this budget, not just that we are experiencing prosperity and our prosperity,
 rightly focusing those additional resources on transportation and parks and a new server to run our 911 center and those other kinds of important basic infrastructure pieces, but that we're making some long-term commitments here that are going to pay off long after the public service career of the five of us has ended. One of those is the out-of-the-mud effort that we are beginning, albeit modestly, an effort.
 to partner with our neighborhoods and our citizens who have been living on dirt streets since they got annexed to the city of Portland, or whenever back in the mists of time some local government allowed their previous homeowners to build houses on streets without sewers or pavement, for us to finally, now that we've got the sewers installed, start working on the pavement one way or another through local improvement districts or however we make that work to make a long-term commitment that someday,
 every street in the city of Portland is improved to a standard that the people that live on it want to see. That's a good thing for us to be able to say that. And then for us to make this ongoing commitment, albeit yet not fully fleshed out, to giving free and available recreation choices to our kids is,
 I'll tell you, I'm so passionate about that. Again, every day I'm getting reports about the increase in gang violence. I was there at the East Portland Community Center a few minutes after that young man turned and fired back into the crowd towards the East Portland Community Center, but blessedly hitting neither anyone there nor even the community center itself.
 you know we've got to give our kids positive options we all know that we don't get the chance to talk to charles jordan about this anymore but i did get the chance the other night because i ran into him at an event to talk to roy pittman who as those of us who've worked in parks for a while know has been teaching kids to wrestle at peninsula park community center for decades of thousands of young people who've been affected by this guy and talk to him about this program and and
 to hear his validation that this is the right thing to do was also pretty powerful. This council has, as far as our research has been able to determine, this council has in three years dealt with the biggest budget deficit in the history of the general fund, or at least its recent history, and the biggest budget surplus in the country.
 dubious honor in the first case and a wonderful opportunity in the second, but I think our values have been consistent through that process, and I think we've shown that we are good managers of the public's money. A couple more mentions there.
 We are in this position today because the city of Portland is prosperous. We have the fastest growing gross domestic product in the fastest growing cities in the country. We have 4.8% unemployment in the city. We've created 23,000 jobs in the last two years.
 in this city. Business profits are up. That's a good thing, and it's a good thing in part because it rains down benefits to public services that the city and the county provide. So that's why the city and the county are enjoying this. So we have a responsibility to keep that good economy going, and it's now paying dividends for our citizens.
 Finally, I want to say thank you to first Andrew and his team. They've worked, as they have always, totally professionally, totally thoughtfully, and relentlessly prudent in their use of these dollars. And we have arguments and discussions around our tables with them about this or that expenditure. And you and your team, Andrew, are first rate in everything you do and totally mindful of
 the fact that these are every one of them a public dollar that somebody's paid in taxes and that sensibility just shines through in everything that you do and i don't know how many people in the city really appreciate that fiscal prudence that you live and breathe but we do so thank you for that good work to gail shibley and to the rest of my staff who've worked so hard to craft this budget thank you for good work as well and to our bureau staff and directors
 who came forward and answered hard questions or in a couple of cases like this parks program developed something new and effective in a very short time i think i thank them for good work as well so i'm very proud of this budget mike glenberg came in here the other night and said it was transformational that's high praise i think it's certainly a great accomplishment for us as a community and an opportunity to build a city that we all love and that will be better because of the way we spend these dollars i'm happy to vote aye
 Thank you very much. And now I believe we're going to adjourn the Budget Committee. Not yet. Approving the tax levies. Sorry. Got to approve the tax levies. There it is. Item number 10. Okay. Always the most important. Got to go. The Budget Committee.
 It's all funny money. We're not going to actually levy the taxes to do all this. Okay, the budget committee will now levy its full permanent rate of $4.5770 per $1,000 of assessed value.
 and $15,293,219 for the payment of voter-approved general obligation bond principal and interest, and $133,795,013 for the obligations for the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund, and...
 $4,026 per $1,000 of assessed value for the children's levy. Furthermore, the city shall levy the amounts listed in the attachment E for urban renewal collections. May I have a motion, please, to approve these tax levies? So moved. Second. Any further discussion? Roll call on the motion to approve the tax levies. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I just wanted to take the opportunity to say that
 we live with a ridiculous property tax system that we in the city can't do anything about. Uh,
 The values of properties are tied to whatever the values were in 1995, which means that in parts of the city where values have increased rapidly since 1995, they're paying based on an assessed value, which is much lower than the real market value. But in parts of the city where values have not appreciated rapidly since 1995, including much of Far East Portland, then people are paying based on an assessed value that's much closer to the real market value.
 So I just want to take this opportunity to say I'm sorry about that. I wish we could fix it. Maybe someday the legislature will send something to the voters that gives them an opportunity to have a more equal property tax system. Aye. Prince.
 Taxes pay for services, and we just allocated the services with the apportioned money. Very grateful to the taxpayers and great payers of Portland for the public money that is dedicated, and I will continue to spend it wisely. Aye. Hales? Aye. Aye.
 And finally, just if I could take 30 seconds before you adjourn, I thank you for the comments about, but I wanted to just recognize myself, the CBO staff, they're hiding behind the pillars. But if they could all stand up. Yep. Yep. We're going to suspend the rules and thank our staff. Thank you.
 Nicely done. As I think you all know, hours and hours of analysis and work go into this five- or six-month period of time, and they're the ones sort of pulling the late nights to make the process run smoothly. So I just wanted to thank them myself as well. Period.
 And I'd also like to thank you with working with each of our staffs. I neglected in my comments to thank Tim Crail. Each one of us has one or more staff who are definitely our point people, and we appreciate your availability and that of each of your staff that we can go directly to you and ask our questions and get them answered quickly. I appreciate your staff's availability when you're not available. Thanks very much. Good work. Thank you very much. And now I will adjourn the Budget Committee. Thank you.
 Okay, I will take a moment's break here to switch staff and we'll move into the PDC Budget Committee meeting. Thanks bill That's cool, that's great Patrick, I hope you have two checks for Commissioner Fritz Maybe yeah more than that she'll take more
 Okay, I'm now convening the Portland Development Commission Budget Committee for the purpose of approving the fiscal year 2015-16 budget. The budget committee members received copies of PDC's budget and an approval change memo on Thursday, May 21st. Gina, would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Hales?
 I'm now calling for a motion to consider the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the change memo and Exhibit A. Do you need to describe any of those for us, gentlemen, or I know you did before?
 or answer any questions that the Council has about changes. We discussed earlier the changes in the general fund budget, which are then mirrored in the PDC budget. That is that tax increment funds will be used to pay $150,000 towards the river access project.
 $638,000 towards the Lansu Chinese Garden repair and $603,000 towards the repair and replacement of the Charles Jordan roof. That will enable general fund funding of the Inclusive Startup Fund at $500,000 and the PDC Community Development Fund at $891,000.
 So the council reviewed all those changes on the general fund side a few minutes ago. I think we're clear on those. Is this time for a question? Yes, please. Yeah, we're here for questions. You have the memo, so we're here for service. The May 21st memo? Yes. Mr. Executive Director, under my name, number one, about the status on the Multnomah County Health Headquarters,
 Do I read this as you will be extending the timeline for final installment, but it is conditioned on this being for a county health headquarter and not for some other purpose? Yeah, that's correct. And since the last meeting, I've had a chance to check in with the county on this, and what they tell me is they plan to proceed with this.
 project so it doesn't seem to be okay anything else and if for some reason they choose not to for whatever reason then it would come back to us for further discussion right yeah I mean the the overall money involved I think we it's still a an agreement between between PDC and the county related to changes to the River District many years ago and other things and so we would want to help them find another project that was TIF eligible but but yeah we
 We will be able to come back and talk about what that project is. Let's just be clear. I know it's beating a dead horse here, but the dirt that I threw in was contingent on it being a 30% eligible project, not some other project. So separate and apart from the TIF that they are entitled to by virtue of the overall deal on urban renewal,
 The dirt is contingent on it being a 30% set-aside eligible project. Yeah, and that's a deal between the city and the county. We're clear about that. Yeah. Thank you. And just so you're aware, it doesn't impact anything, any budget issue right now, but we have agreed actually to resolve an outstanding $9 million payment that we made to the county and downtown waterfront.
 kind of a similar type of agreement but but ten years ago that they've been able unable to to use we will actually Transfer that obligation to River District and transfer a similar obligation back to downtown waterfront. So our contribution to the county Health headquarters building will be nine million dollars more and then we will no longer have the an obligation in downtown waterfront to the county
 so we're working on updating our igas but that's an agreement in principle okay other questions for the chair our team from the from pdc um okay so then that that's uh that's the change memo includes the amendments uh as described in as we've discussed um are there any individual amendments to this memorandum uh from commissioners that anyone wants to propose now
 Okay. Hearing none, then we'll thank the three of you. Call for public testimony, if there is any, on the budget as proposed and on the amendments that are before us. Thank you. Thank you. Mary Ann Schwab. Okay, Mary Ann. You get to sing solo this afternoon, it looks like.
 Maybe we can turn off the blanky blank clock. Well, no. We're not going to start that practice. Who knows where that would lead. But we'll be at least relatively clean. Nice try. I'll push your luck. Nice try. Thank you. Oh, we get a – Okay. This is serious stuff. I want to talk about Washington High School, PDC budget, the park budget. We've been at this since 2004. We've been in queue now for – since a good 30 years.
 And I understand Fix Our Park. I'm really thrilled we're fixing parks. I can understand waiting another 10, 15 years to get it constructed. But we are at risk of losing our land facing southeast Morrison. That's open space right now. Back in the 90s, they upped it to RH when the building was empty, this Washington High School. And back in the same period of time, St. Francis Park was there. Lots of changes going on.
 Portland Public Schools went down to the planning and tried to up it to an EX. It's been nine, ten months. They finally came to Portland, the Buckman Neighborhood Association, and they let us know they didn't get in touch with us because they barely got it in public hearing time by March 30th. They lowered it to CM3. We don't want that. We want open space for our children to run and play. I was hoping to get here in time to beg for a million of your $40 million surplus.
 But I'm also aware, and I have documents to prove it, we had $5.1 million in queue with PDC for the projected costs funded by TIF within the Central City Eastside. And also, we have now with their record, it's $985,000 in queue, and that is due to expire in June of 2017.
 So short of my going out with a bake sale, how can I get another million dollars to buy this land? We have many, many millionaires with deep pockets, deeper than mine, that maybe would want to leave something behind for the children they never had. Let's try to keep the open space. In your own comp plan, you need at least 10 acres for community centers. And Commissioner Fritz is right. They're $10 million. That's a lot of money.
 But we have been tap dancing around and coming down here again and again just to keep a swimming pool open. There are seven inner southeast neighborhoods. It started out to be HCD model cities neighborhoods way back in the late 70s, early 70s. I've been at this this long trying to meet the needs of our kids in the inner city. I've given you my document. I don't know what else I can do. I have the history of who bought what, what was paid for, you name it. I can bury you in paper if that's what you want.
 But I'm not going to spend my ink doing it. I'll give the copies down to ONI and maybe they can print them for you if that's what you need. So again, I'm here asking for assistance. Seriously, I don't want to lose that land facing Morrison Street. Please help me with this. I'm begging you to help me. Not just for me, but for the generations to follow.
 Thank you. All right. Thank you. This is not technically comments to the budget, but can we engage in some of this? No, I'd like to talk about it. It is budget. Yours are – I'm doing you a service by opening it up. I'm not arguing with you. I thought you were teasing me. All right. I'm not arguing with you. Okay. I'm pleading your case.
 Mary Ann has also raised this with me because I have some institutional memory of the option we created, we negotiated with Portland Public Schools once upon a time when there were some other moving pieces, including the potential acquisition of Washington Monroe High School and potential funding and some potentially staged for a new community center. Without getting into the merits of this,
 because I don't have the records to verify what the position is. What I would simply ask, Mayor and Commissioner Fritz, is that we pull the records that Parks has relating to this transaction, because I do remember negotiating. It might have been around the time that we, during one of the episodes where we gave some general fund money to Portland Public Schools during a dip.
 and I do remember this being negotiated, I do remember this being a council priority, I don't remember what the commitment was other than having an option, and an option of first refusal doesn't necessarily commit us to doing anything, but I would ask that those documents be retrieved so we can at least revisit the question well in advance of the expiration of the option date and then decide as a council how we want to proceed. That's separate and apart from the merits of the issue.
 That expires June of 2017, by the way, and I have those resolution numbers. We have the records, Commissioner. I'd be happy to have a discussion. Thank you. Okay. But the property is not.
 That's an option that the city has until 2017, is that right? So the parcel can't be sold by the school district during that time. That could be subject to an option. There are two people, that's with the notes that I hand you, there are two parties of interest bonding that property right now. Already one has filed a right of first refusal on it because they know the city has no money. Okay.
 Okay, but I'm sure there are lots of people who would like to buy that property, but the point is, my question is, can it be sold to anybody else but us during this time? All we negotiated was the option of them coming to us and saying you can match. So they have to come to us first. And I told Sarah King that if necessary, it's just a piece of paper. I will ask the council to sign another intergovernmental agreement. We can keep signing them again and again and again just to keep it on hold. Okay.
 And then maybe put a community garden there for right now. Maybe fence off a dog park. Let's start putting some people on that open space. You're already getting $50,000 for the next five years for the teacher's parking lot. So, I mean, we're doing what we can. Please help us. And Marianne is exactly right. It's a matter of the money to buy it and to develop it. I know. There's a millionaire out here that could do it. They could just write the dump, blink, and blink check. One thing I want to make sure we don't forfeit is...
 acquiring it through an option of a right of first refusal
 just gives us the control of the site doesn't mean we necessarily exclusively develop the site, but there is an upside to this site, some blend of community needs, park needs, and other things. I just want to make sure that if our option expires, it expires because we've consciously decided that under no circumstances there are housing, parks, or other community benefit that we want to pursue. Right. Well, Commissioner, it would take additional general fund money to be able to buy it because it's the
 that we currently don't have the system development charges to be applied. I understand that. Sure. The good band-aid, the good tourniquet is just renew that right of first refusal. In the meantime, I'll have a bake sale. I'd settle for just having the documents. I appreciate, Marianne, I appreciate you highlighting the issue. I think we can do better than band-aids and tourniquets and any other metaphors we want to use. We have a –
 very highly developed partnership with Portland Public Schools. No, it's frazzled. We can talk later. Well, we'll talk later. Let me talk now, though. We have a highly developed partnership with Portland Public Schools that includes the City of Portland paying for really important things like
 school resource officers. So it's not, we're not without leverage in this conversation, and I'm happy to make sure that the five of us are focused on not losing any good opportunities because they're not making any more land. So appreciate your careful vigilance over this issue. I'll be back. I'm sure you will. Thank you. All right. Anyone else to speak on this?
 Okay, so I'll now entertain a motion to approve the budget adjustments. Second. Further discussion? Roll call on approving the budget adjustments as shown in Exhibit A of Resolution 7116.
 fritz why are we doing fritz first because i'm in position number one and it's the it's the pdc budget not the council order wow you are always in position number one in my book but i just was since since i've been used to being the first i was just inquiring as to why we're changing the work okay okay can i say one thing we're already in motion so let us proceed let us proceed here
 Frankly, I just wait to be called Commissioner Fish. I just do as I'm told. But is it about fish and frits? I know there's some things that are distinguishing characteristics, but we do get confused a lot. It's easy to do. Local roast festival. This is the book. Okay, thank you. Thank you. That's my comment. Thank you. I very much appreciate the work of the Portland Development Commission, your accommodation of some of many of the council's requests.
 including handling the ongoing funding for VOS and Southeast Works. Now that's great. The partnership on figuring out how to fund tax increment, use tax increment financing where appropriate, and then general fund where appropriate. I think it's getting to the best of both worlds. Thank you. Bye.
 Yes, thank you, Patrick and senior team. Thank you to the Chair and the leadership for the time you spend with us at this time of the year to get it right. I would highlight a couple of things. I'm very grateful for the deep commitment to affordable housing in North McAdam. And I also appreciate within the framework of the new strategic plan, the additional emphasis we'll be placing on the creative economy as a potential driver.
 as one of the clusters we'll be looking at. And beyond that, this is our last vote on the budget, so I will be brief. Aye. Thank you. Saltzman? I want to thank the PDC Commission and its chair and the staff of the PDC. Pleased to vote aye. Novick? I'm thankful they didn't have to take up as much of your time discussing the budget as they did discussing the urban renewal boundary changes earlier in the year. Thank you very much. Aye. Thank you.
 Well, thank you, Tom. Thank you, Patrick, and your team for great work. I appreciate it, especially Patrick's fervor about this inclusive startup fund and his real creative solution to making sure that we fund it. So that came from a place of commitment to the goals that we have in this.
 strategic plan and that we have for PNC and that both our board and our executive director share with the council in making sure that we are really working on shared prosperity, not just surfing the wave of growth and investment that's coming our way otherwise. So thank you for that commitment philosophically and for a great budget for a great organization. Aye. And now a vote on the budget as amended, please. Roll call. Fritz?
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hills? Aye. And the Budget Committee of the Portland Development Commission is adjourned. Thank you. And we're done. Thank you all. What does an invitation to the Vatican look like? So far it's just an email, but apparently we have something very fancy in the mail soon.