Good morning, Mayor. Are we ready? Yes. Very good. Good morning, everybody. This is the May 23rd a.m. session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Good morning. No worries.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first reading of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Communications, please. Thank you.
 Item 495, request of injured and pissed off to address counsel regarding civil conspiracy and conflict of interest in seventh service animal attacks. Good morning. My name's injured and pissed off, and I wanted to read this because this is what I filled out. You should have copies of this yourselves. Thank you.
 request of injured and pissed off to address council regarding civil conspiracy and conflict of interest in seven service animal attacks in less than six years by the same dog. People talk about landlords such as slumlords and everything else that they have trouble with landlords but currently there's three out of four
 Laundry facilities in my building are incapacitated. There's only one laundry room that's available that's working. This was a building that was built in 1999, candy machine being broken out for the last month. And there's other flooding in the building, sewer problems backing up and stuff.
 But I'm here to talk about the civil conspiracy and the conflict of interest. There's also another paper that's wrote as an uninvited guest. I'm the only one in Portland that's ever come to City Hall and talked about issues with their landlords, being that the city owns the property, as documented in these papers, which is also out here by the Post. Ah.
 And you yourself, Mr. Mayor, writing this letter about animal control and what they should have did after five dog attacks. That was never nothing, anything done. And again, I remind you, I had seven dog attacks in less than six years, and the city did nothing. And thinks that they can get away with them being a $200 billion corporation. They're thinking, I can't sue them.
 Well, I'm going to sue them when I get a good attorney that wants to sue a $200 billion corporation. Because I got injured with two fractures to my spinal cord and a broken hip. There's a half million people that's...
 dead now since my hip surgery. There's only an 80% chance of living. There's 353,000 hip surgeries a year with only 70,600 of them dying each year from complications. What's a half million people or anything? Of course, those people don't get any justice either, so what am I complaining about?
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next individual, please. 492, request of Michael O'Connor to address Council regarding last Thursday on Alberta. Good morning. Good morning. Should I wait for her to hand out? Yeah. You can go ahead and start. Okay. My name is Michael O'Connor. I am here to represent my own views.
 In the packet you're receiving, it's just got a formal letter addressed to Portland City Council. My communication is about last Thursday on Alberta Street. It's something I've been involved in since 2010. And...
 Just to speak about last Thursday a little bit, it's what I consider to be a social phenomenon. It's something, a gathering that naturally emerged, word of mouth, and the city has been shutting down the street for public safety reasons since 2010. And Sam Adams and Commissioner Fritz made a call to action to create Friends of Last Thursday to build a solution for an organization to manage the event.
 I went through an experience to where in 2015 trying to work with former Mayor Charlie Hales, we were unable to reach an agreement. I had acquired 50 endorsements from the local businesses inside the street closure for a planning system and offered to acquire $50,000 to cover some of the public safety expenses.
 and Charlie Hales declined to reach an agreement. And Mayor, you won the primaries and we met at the J&M Cafe shortly after, sort of talked about this issue. I had discovered that the city's registration requirements were not legal when they started them in 2015.
 And I tried to address that with Nathan Howard last year, where he organized a meeting with the city officials involved. And I basically found out that everyone had the legal right to abstain from registering, though the city communicated that not only was it required, police officers said they'd be subject to a $250 fine, and then later in 2016, eviction.
 And I left a copy of what law I think was violated, ORS 163.275, Section H, which is coercion by a public servant. I came back again this year to go to your offices. I spoke with Matt Grum, Commissioner O'Daly's chief of staff, Commissioner Fish, Jamie Dunphy, and they seemed open to the idea again of having another organization cover these expenses.
 So I'm back, but the one thing that I would like to accomplish is that if registration is legally voluntary, that the city say so. So Commissioner Saltzman, I'd love to ask you the question, is registration voluntary? We're here to listen. Okay.
 Great. And I don't have an answer for you because I don't know enough about the issue at all. But I appreciate your bringing this to my attention, and I'll certainly look into it. Okay. And I will follow up. Yeah. Thank you for coming in and sharing it. Sure. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 493, request of Sarah Hobbs to address counsel regarding purpose of assault weapons ban. Good morning. Good morning.
 I have to say this is probably the hardest testimony I will ever get here at City Hall. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs. I woke up Valentine's Day to a text message from my mom letting me know my nephew Matthew, who's a student at Stoneman Douglas High School, was on campus when the shootings happened. It was okay.
 Being over 3,000 miles away, I felt very helpless to know how to help, but then realized that could work to make sure our youth here in Portland are kept safe. Mayor, you've told me your hands are tied when it comes to banning assault weapons on the city level due to state ordinance. But even so, something needs to be done. I do not want anyone to go through what my family has.
 In closing, I ask that we not forget that this past Monday was the 20th anniversary of the shootings at Thurston High School, and that we not forget the fourth anniversary of the shootings at Reynolds High is fast approaching.
 I fear those who forget history will be doomed to repeat it with more tragic, heartbreaking results. And I want to add, right before I have to come here to City Hall, and I encourage everybody to go to NPR.org.
 There is a piece they wrote about the 20th anniversary of the shooting at Thurston, and they interviewed a woman who was a student there 20 years ago who recently suffered flashbacks going to the school cafeteria with one of her children who is now themselves a student at Thurston. We've got a group of beautiful high school young women here today
 I want to know that the young men and women coming to school behind them are going to be safe. I don't want, again, I don't want my family to deal with this result. And people can say, oh, it hasn't happened here in Portland. Call it home.
 Thirst didn't happen 11 months before Columbine, and let's not forget Reynolds. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. Well said. Appreciate it. Next individual, please. Item 494, request of Stan Herman to address council regarding redevelopment of 1300 North River Street. Good morning. My name is Stan Herman, and I want to talk a minute in attitude to the chair.
 I'm just back with the reason I couldn't see you. Stand one sec. I don't think the mic's on. In the past, I've talked to over 20 city employees, and most of them from all the bureaus. They will not answer my questions, or they don't have an answer, or they simply tell me it's not my job. I'm coming to the boss, Mr. Mayor. I'm calling this my Measure 18. For 18 months now, I've been coming to this council meeting...
 to find the best way to learn your process and arrange a meeting and iron out some issues. I've been respectful of your position, polite as to not make a big scene like I've seen happen in these chambers before. Let me play the role of Lars Larson. For the record, Measure 18 questions will be asked to Commissioner Udaly, Fritz, Salson, Fish, or Mr. Mayor in any future election campaigns.
 Mr. Mayor, on 3-20-2018, I was on your website. It asked if I would like to have a meeting with you, and I responded, yes. Why no meeting? After trying through personal appearances, emails, notes dropped off in all your offices, my question to you all is, over these past 18 months, since November 2016, I believe, why have you not responded to any attempts I made to communicate with you?
 Please respond. Well, frankly, that's not how communications work, but you've been in my office and met with my chief of staff on multiple occasions, so I don't know why you're asking me this question. And I've responded in writing. It goes no place. Well, I'm...
 willing to meet because I'm just curious. I don't know what we're talking about. So if you talk to Michelle afterwards, we'll schedule some time. Thank you. You've got my attention. Thank you. Very good. And I want to give back to the community on some things and I think you'll enjoy what we got. Great. Thank you. Look forward to it. Okay. Thank you.
 And does that, no, we have one more, correct? One more individual. Thank you. Sure. 496, request of Eileen Kennedy to address council regarding citizens' privacy issues, contact information, and transparency. Good morning. Members of council, I come before you today to request that greater privacy be afforded to Portland citizens and all others when their testimony is published on the internet. Okay.
 The city should publish and then adhere to an Internet privacy policy that would safeguard citizens. Why privacy? Having one's personal information on the Internet creates an unsafe environment for the individual because of the web's global reach.
 Number one, many Portland citizens hesitate to submit testimony because they are required to furnish personal information. Many of them have been crime victims, as I have been.
 Number two, Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum, speaking at a recent AARP convention, strongly encouraged older adults to not only keep their personal data off the Internet, but also not to give it out over the phone. That because of the high number of fraud cases victimizing older Oregonians.
 Three, the city of Portland likes the convenience of the Internet, but the Internet is not a small town, and the information is not being shared in the context of a small town. Rather, the Internet is a modern global community.
 The city is failing in its responsibility to protect citizens from those who harvest personal data off the Internet to push causes not supported by those citizens. Four. Five.
 The practice of other governmental bodies should be instructive here, like those who don't publish anything more than a citizen's name and, if applicable, the name of the group the citizen is affiliated with. For example, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
 has found a way to balance the values of transparency while at the same time protecting privacy of citizens from those who would use personal information to advance their pet causes.
 On the last two pages of my packet, you will see my testimony to Ryan Zinke at the Department of Interior commenting on the proposed building of oil rigs in our coastal waters. I had joined Washington State Governor Jay Inslee in this effort. The formatting is what I'm pleased to propose. So on the second to the last page, you see my testimony, and there isn't anything else with it other than my name.
 And then they wrote me an email and said, we're going to publish your name and your testimony, but we will not publish this information. They did ask for it, but they did not publish it. And I called them and talked to them on the phone and asked them why did they do that, because they're a government agency like yourself. And they told me it was important to them that citizens were kept safe.
 I also do not like it when personal information is put on the Google search page by the City of Portland. I think that's far too public. All right. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Yes. All of them 502 through 505.
 All right. Call the roll on the consent agenda. There's nothing left on consent. Isn't 501 still? Did you say 501? Oh, sorry. That's the time. So the entire consent agenda has been pulled. Very good. We'll go to the first time certain item, 497. 497, 2018 Rose Festival and Rose Festival Court. Okay.
 Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to invite three distinguished guests to come forward and join us. They are Jeff Curtis, the CEO of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation, Brett Baker, president of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation, and Terry Bowles-Atherton, the president-elect. And congratulations. I'd like to welcome Jeff, Brett, and Terry and the 2018 Rose Festival Court to City Hall.
 Mayor Wheeler assigned me as council liaison to the Rose Festival, and I have to admit it's been a lot of fun. The Rose Festival, of course, is the city's official festival. It brings together families, friends, and tourists to the heart of Portland each year. The Rose Festival is an important part of our city's identity, with its many traditions, wonderful parades, concerts, and other events.
 Today, we're proud to celebrate and highlight the 2018 Rose Court. They are some of our brightest emerging leaders. Perhaps one day, one of them will be seated up here, preferably in one of these four chairs. Jeff, it's an honor to work with you and the Rose Festival Board, and we look forward to continuing to strengthen our partnership in the years ahead. We appreciate all of your tireless work, and I'll turn it over to you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish, Mayor Wheeler, distinguished colleagues on the council, and Jeff Curtis, CEO of the Portland Roast Festival Foundation. And I think it's appropriate as we, just 48 hours from the production of this world-class festival known as your official festival, the Roast Festival, that you're honoring the Van Port Mosaic Festival today. I think that as the...
 of the events industry that the grassroots efforts to start a community celebration in honor of the 70th anniversary of that historic flood in Vanport is very appropriate, and I wanted to just acknowledge that in front of you. In fact, there's a Rose Festival connection to that community and that horrific event
 experience in our community, and that was when that flood happened. Vanport had a float in the Grand Float Parade, had for years, and it washed away. And Portland firefighters at that time rallied together to rebuild the float. Think about how close it was to Grand Float Parade and put their court on, and that parade continued to go down the street and honored the citizens of Vanport, even though they just had that return.
 that event take place just a few weeks earlier. I think that shows our true spirit, spirit of events, and I, again, proud and congratulate you for honoring the community of Vanport today. With that said, I want to go in. What we're going to do this morning is talk a little about our organization and, most importantly, give you a preview of using our Rose Festival Court. And when
 When I do that, I want to acknowledge our theme, Play Happy. This theme was born just under a year ago. And if you recall, last spring, Portland was not in the best happy mood when you had the context of the protests and things of that nature. And, of course, the horrific events that took place on our MAX line is right around Rose Festival season. And while those things were...
 very tragic and unfortunate and part of our community. I think it sent a rallying cry for all of us that we can be better and we can rally and we can ultimately unite people. And that's what the Rose Festival's purpose is. And at the end of the day, the theme, Play Happy, really kind of symbolizes that. Portland's a playground for the next three weeks. Let's all come together and celebrate under this common theme of what this place we call home. So that's what we're going to talk about in the context of our festival this year.
 And with that said, I'm going to lead off and transition to our board president, Mr. Brett Baker. Thanks, Jeff. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. My name is Brett Baker. I have the honor of serving on the board of directors of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation and the privilege of being its current president. First of all, let me reemphasize publicly how much we appreciate the support of the council and the bureaus
 that all engage in some way to make sure that the Portland Rose Festival has the resources it needs. We appreciate all the city employees who play some part in ensuring we have a successful and safe Portland Rose Festival. But I wanted to take a moment to share a side of the Portland Rose Festival that does not get enough accolades.
 While it's easy for me to say a few words or have the fun of writing in a parade or participate in its many events, I represent the heart and soul of the Rose Festival, its volunteer core. Collectively, the Portland Rose Festival is guided and produced by a small full-time staff and a team of dedicated directors totaling currently 53 individuals.
 Our directors are a diverse group of highly motivated and dedicated volunteers. Our directors each serve a one year, excuse me, our directors each serve on a year round plan, serve year round planning on committees that go largely unnoticed behind the scenes of the Rose Festival events, ensuring our programming, business, and charitable goals are met.
 They also are year-round stewards of overall philanthropic mission of the Portland Rose Festival itself. Beyond that core are thousands of volunteers. Many give one hour, in some cases hundreds of hours, simply because they love Portland and the Rose Festival.
 We're very proud to have the honor of being the city's official festival, something earned over a century of being an independent nonprofit that features the city and its people. Portland itself is also the main beneficiary of the Rose Festival. According to our last independent study, the Rose Festival earned a collective economic impact of over $60 million annually.
 A full year's work of planning and preparation is nearly complete as we get ready to get the celebration underway this Friday evening with Mayor Wheeler's official opening of the festival that triggers our opening night fireworks. I want to remind all of Portland, this is your city, your festival, and the stage is now set to play happy together. Jeff, I'll turn it back to you.
 Thank you, Brett. Appreciate that. We're going to have the court give a preview of what the community can expect, but I want to share a couple of highlights that we'll experience this year. First of all, the Spirit Mountain Casino Grand Flow Parade. It's on a stage, on a world-class parade perspective. It's on the likes of the Tournament of Roses in Pasadena, to Macy's, to the Mardi Gras,
 in Europe. And what makes it special is the unique aspects of the floats, the artistic nature of them, the floral aspects, and the creative culture that comes along. This is just a couple of floats that the public will see march down the streets on the Grand Float Parade. This is an otter that looks like it's suspended in water that ultimately is on a 40-foot chassis float going down the streets. Again, all decorated in aspects of floral design.
 And this is another example. You can see riding this dragon is the Blazers' mascot, Blaze, which will be another highlight of the Grand Floral Parade. Just two of upwards of 25 floral floats that will make its way down the streets on the morning of June the 9th, which is our signature event of the entire celebration.
 Jeff, tell people what the rules are for what their float has to be covered with. It has to be covered with anything organic, basically anything that's grown from the ground, whether it's seeds, watermelon rinds, of course the flower content, coffee beans, you name it. There's hundreds of different aspects that these are decorated with. And they are on display. If you don't see the parade, if you see it on TV, you can come down to Nato Parkway and actually see them up close following the ground float parade on Saturday and Sunday.
 This is a small float that is really our kind of our Rose Festival-owned float that we changed a bit this year. And I think it's important to mention is that it showcases the floral content for this float will be only –
 funded through the contributions of citizens in honor of six individuals that have made tremendous impacts of the Rose Festival. The Rose Festival has lost in the last year or two. Six individuals that have been instrumental to our success in our history. We're honoring themselves, their legacy, and their family through floral content of what we call our legacy float.
 That's the Grand Float Parade. Now, when you go down to the waterfront, you'll see a mix of entertainment, mainly with concerts to carnival rides to great food. This photo depicts our Rose Zone concert series, which has the likes of lots of national acts but also local acts.
 But I want to highlight just that what's different this year is the artistic side of our programming. We've dedicated just under half of our funding on the entertainment side to more visual and performing arts, not just bands playing music. And this is an example of a local group called the Aerial Circus Arts Group.
 And you'll see this under a large tent out at City Fair. An evolution of our thinking to make this more awesome, it's an urban artistic fair with great food and carnival rides and great music as well. So this is a new addition you'll see, the public will see down at City Fair over the next three weeks, the performers of these type down there at the waterfront. Got to talk about our Junior Parade because of this piece. This is the 100th anniversary of the Junior Parade.
 And there's a story behind this. And the story is, I wish I had a photo that goes back to 1918, but we'll give you some historic photos just to give you perspective. But specifically, in 1918, the Portland Roast Festival was canceled. City council, city leaders decided it wasn't in the best interest of Portland to have a big festival that year because of World War I.
 But the kids in our community back then, I think it's very appropriate that the court's with us today. We were just talking about how youth movements today are starting to make a difference, and that's important. The kids back in 1918 said, well, if there's no Rose Festival, we'll do something ourselves.
 So they made their own parade up in Northeast 44th Avenue. They elected their own queen, Barbara Cable, and had the first June Rose Festival queen. And there was a parade going down the street in 1918, 100 years ago, organized by kids. Again, I think that shares the spirit of Portland that still exists today, and we're honoring that as the 100th anniversary of the Junior Parade this year. Jeff, for how many years has Commissioner Saltzman attended that parade? Laughter
 You said it was a 100-year tradition. My recollection is he's been pretty faithful in attending that for his entire service. Am I right? He can speak for himself, but I will say that he is absolutely, if you ask him, if not, it's one of his favorite events. And I think it's appropriate, especially with his work on the children's levy and things of that nature, Children's Investment Fund, that he's part of that event. And this will be his last year riding as an elected official. So we're happy to have him on.
 My favorite event, yes. So that's the story of the Junior Parade, I think, that is important to tell. It talks about, and we'll celebrate that this year as well, a couple of just neat photos from back in the 30s.
 Fast forward in 2018, and actually 2017 this photo was taken. Our Portland Thords Football Club won the championship, and they have been named Grand Marshal of our Starlight Parade. So we're excited to have them. There's a big group of them going to be down the street so we can celebrate again these world-class athletes representing Portland. So that's a highlight of our Starlight Parade this year.
 Jeff, you've arranged this year at the Starlight Parade to have the city's car trail the Thorns at my request. I just learned that I may not be able to represent the city, so I'm hoping there is someone. Oh, I already stepped up. I'm hoping that Commissioner Fritz, who is our number one Thorns fan, would be willing to do that. So thank you. Yep. Plans happen and vote fast, and she's already on it, and we're already making those arrangements. I called an upgrade.
 So we're going to let the court talk about the Enquirer Festival in great concept and detail. But I thought, again, looking at the volunteer side, I wanted to have our president-elect speak. We're transitioning Brett's in office for just until October, but we're introducing Terry to a lot of the key roles that she'll carry on. And I thought this was the perfect entree for you to meet her and speak about herself and her role within the Rose Festival. I'll introduce Terry Bowles-Atherton. Thank you, Jeff.
 Good morning, and again, thank you, Mayor Wheeler and the entire council for having us this morning. Again, my name is Terri Bowles-Atherton, and I'd like to tell you a little bit about myself and how I became involved with the Portland Rose Festival Foundation, and in particular, why I'm passionate about the Rose Festival.
 As with many Portland natives, I became fascinated with the kind of the wonderment of the Rose Festival at a very young age. I was actually told I attended my first Rose Festival wrapped in my mom's arms in a blanket when I was about six months old. And later on, I had two cousins who attended Jefferson High School become Rose Festival princesses in the 70s. And as a little girl, I was just in awe of that and all that they represented in the rest of the Rose Festival court.
 I also landed my first ever volunteer job with that same uncle and family, along with neighborhood volunteers, applying flowers and greenery on the floats that he sponsored annually at that time representing that African American community. I still remember how important and proud I felt being in those warehouses sometimes really late into the night, applying the last final touches to the floats.
 And so as you can see, early on I have a love of the Rose Festival and that flows through my blood. The Rose Festival has also given me the opportunity to connect my passions of giving back to the community and also working with young women.
 When I returned to Portland after graduating from college, I worked at the American Red Cross, and ironically it was there, similar to today's visit, where I met a most impressive group of young women. They had come there as ambassadors to welcome and thank blood donors who were present that day.
 And after a brief conversation with one of the chaperones, she commented to me that the Rose Festival always welcomes volunteers to help shepherd the young ladies, 13 young ladies at the time, from event to event. So having a passion for working with young women, I again was kind of bitten by the volunteer bug and decided to continue volunteering with the Rose Festival. So as you probably can guess, after one volunteer job after another, I was soon invited to the board in 2009.
 And today I'm here as the incoming president-elect of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation and want to emphasize the importance of the festival to our entire city. Not only is the Rose Festival our opportunity to showcase our wonderful city across the country and throughout the world, it's also our opportunity to bring about our communities together in unity and mutual pride.
 It's also a time to celebrate our various cultures. It's a time to celebrate the amazingly beautiful floral heritage of our city. It's a time to showcase Portland's biggest annual party. It's also a time to bring out the inner kid in each of us. And it's simply a time to play happy together.
 And I honestly couldn't be more proud to be part of an organization that allows me to help host the city's biggest party. The Portland Rose Festival is, in fact, the center jewel of our city's crown. And to highlight the events of the Portland's official festival, I'd like to welcome 14, or actually 12 of the 14, two are taking AP tests this morning, to highlight the events that are coming over the next three weekends. Thank you. Thank you, and welcome.
 Hello! We are the 2018 Rose Festival Court presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. We'd like to introduce ourselves and tell you what's happening during this year's Rose Festival. Luz!
 I'm Luce from Lincoln High School. My favorite Rose Festival event is the Starlight Parade because I love seeing the fun light displays each group will have and all the families lined up to watch them. To me, there is no more of a perfect theme for the Rose Festival than play happy because that's what it's always been for me.
 Come play Happy at the Rose Festival this year. Bring your family to downtown Portland for the PGE Solve Starlight Parade, Saturday, June 2nd at 8.30 p.m. to see the illuminated floats, marching bands, dancing groups, and special entries that light up the sky at this nighttime event. Or watch it live on KPTV Fox Channel 12.
 Hi, I'm from Jefferson High School, where I am president of our National Honor Society, co-president of our Women's Empowerment, and a member of Self-Enhancement Youth. Now that I'm a part of the court, I can give the young girls in my community a positive role model to look to.
 Come join me and my fellow princesses to see who will be crowned this year's Queen of Rosaria. The Queen's Coronation, presented by United Community Credit Union, will be held Saturday, June 9th at 8.30 a.m. at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum right before the Grand Floor Parade. We appreciate all the support. What's up?
 Hi, I'm Melissa from Grant High School. In middle school I was part of the Beaumont cheerleading team which took part in the Junior Parade every year. It was always an indication that summer was just around the corner. Come show your support for local youth by joining us for the Fred Meyer Junior Parade on Wednesday, June 6th at 1pm in the Hollywood District. This year we will be celebrating the centennial of the Junior Parade's inception, where the children of Portland took to the streets to make their own rose festival processions.
 Watch it in live or catch the telecast on KPTV Fox Channel 12.
 Jenny. I'm Jenny from St. Mary's Academy. As a Laurelhurst Elementary and Middle School graduate, I'll always cherish my memories of the school's rose competition, meeting the Rose Festival Court, and singing What a Wonderful World with all my fellow students. I still have my ribbon from the year my rose won the miniature rose category. Do you want to find your own rosy memento from the Portland Rose Festival and the City of Roses? Come visit the Rose Garden Store, located at Portland's famous International Rose Test Garden in Washington Park.
 Proceeds from the store help support Portland's public roast garden. I'm Allie from David Douglas High School. Roast Festival Fleet Week is my favorite event because, aside from the significance of appreciation, it exhibits the progress our nation has come to as a united and diverse country. Roast Festival and Fleet Week gives Portlanders an inspiration for everyday life to stand together and grow as one community. Bring your family to see the ships lined up on the Waterfront Park seawall during Fleet Week, June 6th through June 10th.
 The Rose Festival is excited to welcome ships back to Portland from the United States Navy, U.S. Coast Guard, and Royal Canadian Navy. While they're here, you can climb aboard for a free ship tour for a complete flea week experience. Madison! I'm Madison from Roosevelt High School. When I was younger, my parents would tell my brother and me to have a happy heart and a good attitude, both at work and during play.
 I participate in my local Rugby Oregon club team each spring, and I also run in various 5Ks throughout the Portland area. This year, Cambia is empowering hardworking women by bringing up the best female golf pros in the world. The Cambia Portland Classic will be held at the Columbia Edgewater Golf Course on Labor Day weekend, Thursday, August 30th through Sunday, September 2nd.
 Stephanie. I'm Stephanie from Madison High School. My biggest hobby is music. I often spend my spare time strumming my ukulele and singing any song I can think of. My love and appreciation for music and the arts has only grown from the six years that I've spent in my school bands and choirs. If you're a music lover like me, make your way down for a variety of concerts taking place this season in the Rose Zone. Check out the Disciple Records Takeover, the Proof Presenting Tribute Fest, and the Bulls Country Fest featuring Eli Young Band.
 Come join in the musical fun out at Waterford Park. I'm Anna from Wilson High School, and my favorite Rose Festival event has to be the Grand Floor Parade. Seeing the diversity in faces among the crowd, the beautiful and meticulous details of the floats, and the overall excitement and enjoyment of everyone keeps me smiling the whole time.
 Come see the joyful performance from around the world at the spectacular Spirit Mountain Casino Grand Floral Parade on Saturday, June 9th at 10 a.m. Watch for the amazing horses, dancing groups, marching bands, and all floral flutes. See it for yourself in the streets and reserved seats at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum or live on KPTV Fox Channel 12.
 I'm Sydney from Cleveland High School. My favorite Rose Festival event is the Dragon Boat Race because I get to watch my mom race every year. Plus, there are tons of people and I love the atmosphere there. Everybody's happy to be there. Come see the Dragon Boat Race held on the Willamette River near the Hawthorne Bridge on June 9th and June 10th. The Dragon Boats won't be the only ones on the water this year. Come cheer on the kids and their families on Sunday, June 24th at the classic Rose Festival event, the Milk Carton Boat Race.
 Mariamo. Hi, my name is Mariamo from Benson High School. Playing happy is a lifestyle that makes me happy to be me. My hobbies include modeling, dancing, community service, and learning about my culture and others. You see, I love to blend my unique culture within the Rose Festival. Expressing yourself and what makes you
 happy by marching or dancing your way down to the Grand Floral Parade. Root at the parade, bank up the West Grand Floral Walk on Saturday, June 9th at 9.30 a.m. Wear a funky costume or a branded t-shirt as you walk past hundreds of thousands of spectators cheering you on. Maya! I'm Maya from Westview High School representing the Metro West region. My favorite place in Portland is Mount Tabor. I love walking to the top and looking west to downtown.
 The trails specifically around the water reservoir and the open green space I frequent once up in the spring and the summer. Portland's natural spaces need protection, but so do the urban spaces. Show your support for our shared environment by helping keep the city streets of Portland clean and green. The Portland Rose Festival is the cleanest and greenest festival, working hard to keep the post-parade streets spotless for over 20 years.
 Kiara! I'm Kiara from Park Rose High School. I love Portland for its artistic events such as the Saturday Market Downtown and Last Thursday on Alberta Street. The lively vibes of artists and bands performing on sidewalks with booths lining up and down the streets is something to look forward to every weekend from March until December. Join us this year as we celebrate the 10th anniversary of Rose Festival Clowns. This program has drawn close to 140 participants.
 These ordinary folks turn extraordinary entertainers, reflect both the contemporary culture of the region and the traditional art of clowning. The clowns are led by one of the region's most talented and professional clowns, Angel Acasio, also crowned the Rose Festival Clown Race. Thank you for hosting the 2018 Rose Festival Court presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. We'll see you at the Rose Festival!
 Yes, and there's an opportunity here briefly for comments, if anybody would like comments. And then we'd love to have a photo with the entire court right down here in front of the rostrum. Colleagues? I just have to say this presentation is one of my favorite things of the entire year. So thank you very much. Good job. You did a fantastic presentation, and I look forward to seeing more of you on the parades and at the walk.
 Thank you. So I enjoyed a breakfast with these young ladies this morning, and I was told that they were going to ask me some questions.
 And I was expecting a very easy set of questions because it was breakfast and we were all hungry and it's early. And the very first question they asked me, and Commissioner Udaly, you will appreciate this, the very first question was tell us about your affordable housing strategy. And can you tell us about your anti-gentrification plans for north and northeast Portland and
 Please be specific. I have great confidence in this generation of young leaders, and these are all wonderful and delightful and intelligent young leaders, and we're honored by your presence. So thank you for being here today. Thank you. Very good. We'll just move these in. In the name of the 2018 Rose Festival, I would like to present each community council member, as well as the official,
 to give to our family when we are selected as princesses. And I would like to give each member of the city council this kind of proposal to say that you are now a member of our family. That's really nice. Jeff, does that get us into all the events, right? Yes, I do. No, it can't do it? Okay, good. Just so cool. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yeah, my daughter went to Wilson. No!
 Thank you very much.
 I can't see. I want you to do it. We're all in the middle. Come on down. Perfect. And then the ladies up front. That seems very good. Do a squat. Yeah, perfect. Alright, everyone. We'll have you scoot in a little bit. We'll talk to the family. Alright, one, two, three. One, two, three.
 I'm sorry. One more, one more. I know, I'm sorry. One, two, three. But fortunately everyone smiled with their eyes open. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. You're welcome. Thank you. Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. It was fantastic. Yes.
 Oh, of course. Ladies, thank you. Congratulations. Yes. We have a good conversation. This is pretty close. This is the second. A lot of it, yeah. These people from the Celilo community, they are elders. They're going to be on us. Okay, yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thanks. Thank you. Hey, Ted? Yeah. So what I have is talking points, invitation, proclamation, and photo. You've got the proclamation, I think. All right. Next item. Item number 498, please. Proclaim May 30, 2018 to be Vanport Day of Remembrance. Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. I have some brief introductory remarks. I'd like to invite Laura Loforti from Vanport Mosaic, Jim Burke, a local historian, and Marge Moss White, a former Vanport resident, to take their place at the table and welcome to our distinguished guests. Mayor and colleagues, we're here today to honor the survivors of Vanport and to remember the rich history of this often forgotten chapter in our past. Thank you.
 This is a year of important anniversaries. The 76th anniversary of Vanport's construction in 1942, the 70th anniversary of the Vanport flood on May 30th, Memorial Day, 1948, and of course the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act. Vanport residents came from across the country in search of jobs during World War II. At its peak, it was Oregon's second largest city with over 40,000 residents.
 Almost half were African American. I'm honored to serve on a council that commemorates this rich history on a regular basis and that has supported Vanport Mosaic with a special appropriations grant. The third annual Vanport Mosaic Festival begins today and runs through Memorial Day. And we're very pleased to have with us today again Laura Laforte, Jim Burke, and Marge Moss White. Laura, take it away. Good morning.
 I was practicing to say all your names, but I decided that it's not going to be a good thing, so I can't pronounce them. And also, I just remind myself a lesson, one of the many lessons from the Vanport history, that at the end of the day, we are all the same community, so there's no need to make distinction between you and us and everybody here.
 So community, good morning. We are so excited to invite you to the third Vamper Mosaic Festival. It opens today and thank you for the opportunity to be here and invite the city to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the Vamper flood.
 There are hundreds of people behind the Vanport Mosaic Project. It's a memory activism effort to amplify, honor, and preserve this important history and many other silenced histories of our region. So we opened today and for six days we are gonna invite you to explore this history with us with tours of the former sites, exhibits, oral history screenings, theater, music,
 a reunion for former residents. It's our third reunion, and this year we have over 100 guests confirmed. And so it's a growing community, although of course it is a shrinking community. People are in their 80s and 90s, and so this is a very urgent call to all of you to gather around their stories and their lessons.
 One of the events I want to point out to is the forum called Lessons from Vanport and Katrina. And it is an opportunity on May 28th, when we commemorate the 70th anniversary, to really listen to these stories. We're going to have Vanport survivors and the survivors from Katrina to share their lessons of survival.
 At the end of the day, we can have all the emergency kits that we want, preparing for a potential earthquake or flooding. We are at risk of flooding.
 What is going to determine our survival is our community. So the Vamper Mosaic is really a platform for belonging and a call to gather face-to-face with communities that you might not be familiar with, and it's a celebration of the city we want to be. So I'm honored to have many former residents and flood survivors here with us, and I invite you all to honor their experience and to listen to their stories. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Marge Cannon Moss, and I am a Vanport survivor. Ma'am, if we could just move the mic a little closer to you so we can all hear you. Thank you very much. Is that better? That's better. I am a Vanport survivor. We moved there in 1944 from Las Vegas, and I found Vanport to be a wonderful place to live.
 There was no discrimination. My teachers were all wonderful. If I have time, I would like to tell you this one story. I was in the sixth grade, and they were encouraging me to play basketball.
 I had never played basketball before. I did not know the rules. So I'm bouncing the ball around, and of course the other kids, they're doing the same thing, and all of a sudden I fouled a girl. We were taught in Louisiana, where I was born, that you do not touch white people. You do not look at them in their face. You look down.
 And of course, when I found this girl, I was devastated. There was a post close by, and I grabbed the post, and I held on to it. I had a wonderful teacher. She tried to coax me away from the pole, but I would not turn the pole loose. And so I'm saying Van Bort was well integrated, in my opinion. I never felt any discrimination.
 It was during World War II, and everything was rationed. And I remember going to the store to buy eggs. You didn't get a carton to put your eggs in. If you were lucky enough to have one, you would hold on to it. And we would have paper bags. So, of course, we would cherish the eggs and hold on to them and take care of them and not drop them.
 We had our own theater, and we could sit anywhere we wanted in that theater. We had recreation centers, and we could go and we could play with the young girls or boys. Without feeling discriminated against.
 And I have to say that Vanport, to me, was home, and it still is. Now, the area where Vanport was is Delta Park. To me, it is not Delta Park. It is still Vanport. If we could incorporate the name of Delta with Vanport, I think that would be a wonderful thing to do. It could be...
 Vanport Delta. And that is my wish and one of my requests. I loved Vanport. I loved the people that were there. And I had a wonderful schooling there. The teachers did not treat me any different than my classmates. One of my best friends, her name was Lila.
 To me, Lila was the tallest white girl I'd ever seen. And she had the reddest hair. I had never seen such red hair. But Lila and I were very good friends. And I think, have I used up my time? Because I can go on and on. Thank you.
 Marge, thank you very much. And what you've done is you've whet our appetite. And the purpose of the festival is for us to learn more about all the stories. And thank you for sharing a part of your story with us today. It's my pleasure. I love talking about Vanport. And thanks to this lovely woman here. We've been doing this since 2014. Thank you. Very nice. Thanks so much.
 Good morning. My name is Jim Burke, and it's my honor to be here today as we read the names of those who lost their lives nearly 70 years ago. Sarah Louise Butcher Michael Cary Butcher Isla Mae Smith Henry George Smith Helen Ruth Banks Lorena Smith
 Florence Beadle. Izumi Oyama. Earl Wayne Hopkins Sr. Effie Mae Dawson. Camilla Winterland-Dawley. Gerda Kaspara Winterland. Sadao Mizuno. Hiram Michael Skaggs. And Mabel Irene Powers.
 Mayor, I believe you have a proclamation and some remarks. I do. And is Joyce Nelson with us today? Is she going to be speaking? I don't know. I don't think so. Very good. And I want to acknowledge that the Native community also holds this day as a very, very special day. Joyce? I would like to say a few nice things about you, if you don't mind. Joyce, could you stand up just one more time so people can see you, please? Yes.
 We'd like to recognize you. Joyce is a member of the Assiniboine Sioux Tribe from Montana. In 1944, Mrs. Nelson moved to Vanport with her parents and siblings all the way from the Fort Peck Reservation in eastern Montana. Her parents relocated here to take advantage of the jobs that were available in the shipyards.
 She was 13 years old when Vanport flooded, four years after her family moved from their tribal homelands. She vividly recalls seeing her housing unit twirling in the strong floodwaters right behind her family's car as they escaped this tragedy. Mrs. Nelson kept a scrapbook, which she has with her. One of the items that she saved is her emergency report card,
 that was issued to all Vanport children who were unable to return to their school to complete the school year. She graduated from Lincoln High School when it was located in what is now Portland State University. She then went on to receive secretarial training at the Bureau of Indian Affairs Trade School in Lawrence, Kansas, called the Haskell Institute.
 Today, Joyce, we'd also like to recognize you and to acknowledge the significant Native American presence that thrived in Vanport before its collapse. Many of those families stayed on here in Portland to work and raise families. We'd like to recognize that Vanport was a contributing factor to the tribal diversity that is represented here in our city.
 And I'd also like to recognize from the Celilo community Linda Mianis, who is here today. Good morning. As well as Siadam Edmo, who I believe is also here. Very good. Thank you for being here, and we are honored by your presence.
 So here's a tradition from the Portland City Council. We read these proclamations in moments of honor and recognition and remembrance like this. Whereas 2018 is the 76th anniversary of the construction of Vanport, the 70th anniversary of the Vanport flood, and the 50th anniversary of the Federal Fair Housing Act,
 And whereas the city of Vanport was once Oregon's second largest city and the nation's largest public housing project with a peak population of over 40,000 individuals. Whereas Vanport was home to World War II shipbuilders, a diverse group of people from all across the country, 25% of whom were African American citizens.
 And whereas the community had schools, stores, a hospital, a movie theater, and a two-year college. And whereas Vanport was constructed in the Columbia River floodplain and was protected from the river by a series of levees. Whereas the Columbia River flooded on May 30, 1948, immediately displacing its residents.
 And whereas Portlanders today know the site of Vanport as Delta Park, the Portland Expo Center, Heron Lakes Golf Course, and Portland International Raceway. And whereas Vanport Mosaic is a nonprofit community group that honors the history and the legacy of Vanport.
 And whereas, Vanport Mosaic will hold a festival from May 25th through 28th, 2018, to honor and celebrate Vanport as an essential and often forgotten chapter in Portland's history.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 30, 2018, to be Vanport Day of Remembrance in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you.
 Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to draw everyone's attention to an exhibition of artwork in the south atrium downstairs by Peggy Ball Morrill, which was coordinated by our tribal liaison, Laura John, in concert with my office.
 Peggy was a member of the Klamath Modoc tribe and painted about her experiences growing up in Vanport, which she also narrowly escaped as a toddler with her family and afterwards settled in North Portland. Peggy's art portrays a community that is nearly invisible in popular culture and is often not acknowledged as having a presence in Vanport.
 The paintings downstairs recall a close-knit Native community at a time when federal termination and relocation policies threatened Native survival and drove families to places like Portland for jobs and education.
 Peggy Ball Morrell's parents moved from Chiloquin, Oregon to Vanport during World War II. She was raised in North Portland, graduated from Jefferson High School, and began taking art classes at PCC Cascade Campus in the 1970s. She studied drawing and painting at the drawing studio with Phil Sylvester. And...
 was also a master star quilt maker. Peggy passed away in August of 2015. And full disclosure, Peggy is also the mother of one of my best friends. And I had the incredible honor of showing her artwork in my gallery in 2015, a few months before she passed away. So it's a
 That's my personal connection to Vanport, and it's such a treat to get to visit with these paintings again, and I hope that everyone has a chance to view them on your way out today. And thank you for your continued efforts to celebrate Vanport. Thank you. So we'd like to now invite folks up who would like to have a picture with this right up in front, and we'll get rid of these little ropes here so we can do that. Sure.
 I want to hear more about your red-headed friend. Hey, Colin. I want to hear more about your red-headed friend.
 Thank you.
 I can't see you. There you go. If you can't see the camera, then you're not in the photo. Okay? Yeah, buddy. Ready? One, two, three. One, two, three. Perfect. You got everything in? Got everything in. All right. Thank you, everybody. Thank you for joining us.
 THANK YOU.
 This is like a collector's item. You know that, right? It's nice to see you again. Thank you. All right. Oh, this one should be good. We'll get a new one. All right.
 Okay. Okay. Is that the... Is that okay for us to put that there? Oh. Hey, Gary? Back in session, and we now have another...
 Important proclamation and recognition today. Carla, could you please read item number 499? Yes. Proclaim May 23, 2018 to be Jewel Lansing Day. Madam Auditor, good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Good morning. I am City Auditor Mary Hall-Caballero, and I am pleased to introduce a proclamation declaring Jewel Lansing Day in Portland.
 Jewel is being honored today for her contributions as a trailblazer for women in elective office and a pioneer in government accountability. I'm joined by former city auditor Gary Blackmer, who followed a few steps behind Jewel as an elected auditor and a force within the auditing profession.
 I sit in this place at this time in large part because of their influence, but mostly because Jewel Lansing is a hard woman to say no to when she wants you to run for office. That's because Jewel was among the vanguard of women who successfully ran in the 1970s, paving the way for those of us today for whom such a choice is unremarkable. Jewel pioneered performance auditing in Portland and Multnomah County, Texas,
 She served as Multnomah County Auditor from 1975 through 1982 and Portland City Auditor from 1983 through 1986. She was one of the first two women elected to Multnomah County government and was the fifth elected in Portland. Jewel has been an auditor, accountant, author, campaigner, supporter, advisor, mother, grandmother, and wife.
 She plays in a regular poker game, remains a force in politics as a founding member of a woman's political action committee, and still influences the outcomes of elections as a much sought-after endorser. Jewel's family is here to join the celebration and her contributions to the well-being of Portland and to christen the newly named Jewel Lansing Conference Room in City Hall.
 Daughters Annette, Elise, son-in-law Joe, grandson Tyler, and husband Ron are here today. We're also joined by some auditors and former auditors. Former Metro Auditor Suzanne Flynn is here, and Metro Auditor Brian Evans is here, and we have some auditors in the balcony from Multnomah County, and we have many members of the League of Women Voters. Thank you.
 So now I'm going to turn it over to Gary Blackmer to share his unique perspective on JUUL, and then JUUL will say a few words before you read the proclamation. Thank you, Mayor, members of council. I want to talk a little bit about JUUL's impact on auditing because it has a long reach not only within this community but nationally. She introduced performance auditing in Multnomah County right after she was elected in 1975.
 And one thing I want to recognize was that she was approached by Don Clark to run for Multnomah County Auditor because he encouraged accountability. He's in the room here, and I'd like to at least have him stand up and –
 Yes, he approached accountability as an important element of a healthy organization. And from the standpoint of what Jewel introduced, this was only the second local government audit program in the entire U.S. in 1975. She was beat out by a few months by King County up north of us, but I think we've done better over the years.
 And that's speaking a little bit of bias. So then she ran for Portland auditor. And one interesting little story was George Yurkovich was the auditor at the time. And she went in to meet with him. And after the meeting, she came out and announced that George was retiring and she was running. Well, this came as a little bit of a surprise to George because he...
 He hadn't planned on sharing that information with anybody. So anyway, she ran and was elected, and she fought hard to create a performance audit program here in Portland. She had to work hard with council to get three votes to actually create the program.
 She succeeded with that. Then she had a long fight to actually get it funded. This was a place that wasn't quite as welcoming as Don Clark was in Multnomah County to performance auditing. But I think over the years, the city has adapted to the fact that accountability is a healthy thing for this government and its operations. And the openness that it embraces with the public is something that's part and parcel with what the auditor does.
 Nationally, once she got involved with performance auditing, she encouraged other local government auditors to get together and out of that came a newsletter and out of that came an organization that has now grown to over 300 organizations and 2,500 members. So she was in the vanguard when there were fewer than a dozen auditor's offices in the
 She worked hard to create elected auditors at Metro and at Washington County. Both of those positions were created as a result of her influence and encouragement for accountability. And she continues to oversee those in the sense that she meets with potential candidates,
 and considers endorsing them. And I was one of the lucky ones to get her endorsement. And I've continually kept in touch with her, and I consider her a mentor. And I remember many times I would meet with her and kind of bemoan a challenge that I had either in the city or the county and realize that she'd been there before, and she had good advice and good solutions. So I've appreciated the relationship for over 30 years now.
 And from the standpoint of what she's accomplished, I think I owe her a great deal. And I think she changed the face of auditing not only in the Northwest but nationally. And I think we all owe her a great deal. So thank you, Jill. Thank you. Jill, is there a few words? My turn? Yeah.
 My turn. Jewel Lansing. I didn't put anything in writing, so I'm going to be very informal to tell you when I talk about commissioners, they're not talked about, for instance, for Commissioner Fritz. It would be Amanda. Amanda.
 Or Nick or whatever. And that was the day before TV cameras. And believe me, that made a great difference when the TV cameras came in and captured that. Margaret Strawn, I remember there's one very famous meeting at which they were talking about a hot tub someplace in northwest Portland.
 And Margaret said, it's not just the blank, blank hot tub, except it wasn't blankety-blank. And here's Mildred going over the airwaves with her. So she got in the car and zipped out to Channel, I guess it was Channel 2 then.
 and talk them into withholding those cherished words. So now you know what history does not know. Or did I put it in my book? I think I might have put it in the book. I have to say that one of the great things about this job has been that
 I had the opportunity to learn about the city of Portland and Multnomah County, Oregon, and to put it in a book. It's called Portland People, Politics, and Power. And it is now seen as pretty much a major reference work that people use. I use it all the time myself, so it must be okay. Yeah. The interesting thing about Mildred and
 who was the third woman. And Connie, Connie McCready, was the second woman. The first one was, who was the first? Dorothy McKellar Lee. But she was 40 years before, and she was appointed. They were all appointed. In fact, Margaret Strawn was the first one who was ever elected, and I was appointed too rather than elected.
 But I should have brought it in writing, shouldn't I? Well, it was that Mildred and Margaret were sometimes...
 How should we say it? At odds with each other. And the same with Mildred and Connie McCready. Connie was only mayor for eight months until she got appointed, and then she lost at the ballot to Frank Ivancy. The time that I came over to City Hall from the county
 was just at the time that the only women who had been in office here were, as I say, Dorothy McCullough Lee, and then Connie McCready, who was married to one of the editors at the Oregonian. And she got the appointment to the Senate, but then she...
 She lost, as I said, at the ballot box. And then Margaret Strong. And then me. I remember one night Gretchen Kifori and I were at a party where they were about, I think, maybe it was when we were playing poker. And there were four or five of us there. And we were talking about how few women there were in Portland City Council. And we said...
 Hey, Gretchen, do you realize that half of the body of the city of Portland is here in this room tonight? Well, I am pleased to have my husband, Ron, of 62 years here. And my daughters, Elise and Annette, and my son-in-law, Joe.
 And I am just pleased to hear that the balcony is full of people today. How about that? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. So it is my honor to read this proclamation, but before I do, a point of privilege.
 I was meeting with the young women this morning from the Rose Festival Court, Jewel. They were having a breakfast here as their tradition every year. And I believe you were here when we were acknowledging them in the chamber earlier. And one had asked me effectively what kind of difference can a person make if they're committed to changing the community?
 And I wish they didn't have the busy schedule that I know that they have because I would have liked for them to have seen the impact that you have made. And as I thought about the introductory remarks that the auditors have made here about the circumstances that you came into when you first ran for office and the history that we are now seeing unfold before us, where the county commission is all women,
 that on January 1st of this year, the city council will be three women and two men. And we all too often in this community forget that the auditor is a very important independently elected position. Four of the six of us who are holding elective office in the city of Portland will be women.
 And that is something my daughter can look to and see as a normalized situation, whereas a generation ago that was not the case. And it's because of you and your leadership and the very few people like you who really made a courageous step into the public sector. And you have changed the community irreparably and positively.
 And I'm just so pleased to have you here. Frankly, when I heard all these auditors were going to be in City Hall, I started to get a little sweaty palm. And I wondered if this was some sort of an elaborate sting operation. Intervention, Mayor. But now that I know that it's not, Jewel, we're just delighted to have you here. So...
 Whereas Jewel Lansing holds an important place in local government history through her tireless advocacy for accountability and the preservation of the history of the city of Portland and Multnomah County, and whereas Jewel has inspired and encouraged numerous other women to run for public office,
 And whereas Jewel was one of two women in 1974 elected to Multnomah County government, the first women to hold elective office there. And whereas in 1982, Jewel was the first woman elected as city of Portland auditor and only the fifth woman elected to city office.
 And whereas in 1986, under her leadership, Jewell introduced performance auditing to the city of Portland and successfully proposed a charter change to the people of Portland to ensure performance auditing remained a critical and binding city function.
 And whereas Jewel dedicated her career to improving the transparency, accountability, and effectiveness of government operations through auditing and documentation of history. Whereas City Hall has no rooms named for prominent women in its history.
 and auditor Mary Hull Caballero has ordered the conference room in City Hall Suite 130 to be renamed the Jewel Lansing Room, and whereas a grateful city of Portland is more equitable and accountable place for her efforts and her leadership,
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 23, 2018 to be Jewel Lansing Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Thank you, Jewel. Collins, did you have anything to share? I have a question. Commissioner Fish?
 I just have a quick comment and a question. The comment is that since Auditor Lansing referenced her two works of history of the city and the county, when I was first thinking of running for office, I read the history of Portland that she wrote, and I did an outline because I figured as a transplant I needed to –
 I needed to know the history. And years later, when I shared that with her, Jewel said, why don't you send me a copy of your outline? Okay.
 And I sent it to her, and true story, she sent it back with a number of corrections. And she audited my outline. But I wanted to ask her a question because you are sort of the historian of this city and county. This past cycle, when I was on the ballot, I went to a lot of forums, right?
 And the way they were usually structured is the auditor's race came first. So I would watch the three candidates for a Multnomah County auditor debate before my panel was invited up. And, Jewel, I don't remember the last time we had that kind of competition.
 for an auditor position. So my question is, is that the norm or is that an exception to have a field of a number of very highly qualified people running for the auditor position? It's pretty much the exception, should we say. It's the exception. I guess we'd say it's a healthy thing, right? Mary was unopposed. I'm not trying to get sideways with the auditor. But it was interesting because...
 I don't remember a debate like that. And I think for a lot of people, it was the first time they heard, you know, highly qualified people debating the role of the auditor. So I think it was very good for democracy. Thank you. I'd just like to thank you, Jewel, for all your service and chronicling of Portland's history. Your book certainly is the Bible as far as that goes. And I thought since there's three auditors up here, I had to ask. I mean, I think I've been in public office almost 25 years.
 I think I know what performance auditing is, but I wanted to ask, you know, there's people watching today who are probably wondering what is performance auditing. So maybe I thought I'd ask, what is the opposite of performance auditing?
 The opposite of a firm. Since we've had it since 1986, I'm not sure I know what the opposite is. What did it used to be like before Juul came in and shook things up? When Juul came in, it was mostly around financial controls. So now we outsource our audit of the financial statements to a CPA firm
 And Jewel did a lot of accounting-related kinds of auditing around financial controls. And when she got into the charter that we would do performance auditing, that is now all that the staff of my office do is performance auditing. So she changed, completely changed the landscape of auditing. And so we look at how things are performing, what program is working, and then we also have that financial statement on it as well. So we're coming at you every way we can think of.
 Thank you. I just realized I forgot to tell you about the very dramatic moment, the most dramatic moment in my tenure around here, was when performance auditing dollars were proposed in the budget, proposed by Mildred Schwab, opposed by Frank Ivancy, bitterly opposed by him. And when the vote came, there was a picture in the Oregonian
 the next day that showed, oh, five of the commissioners, Frank is looking over this way, won't even look at me. And the other four voted for it. And it was, that picture was on the front page of the Oregonian. Granted, it was the afternoon edition.
 but still it was there and when I took that back to Washington D.C. and talked to auditors from around the country they'd never heard of a place where the media was that interested in audits great
 We make sure you're daily. Jewel, I just want to say congratulations and that it's been a treat to get to spend some time with you and get to know you. Jewel's book that people have been mentioning is called Portland, People, Politics, and Power, 1851 to 2001. So just a little light bedside reading, if anyone's interested. It is one of my... I've said it before, I'll say it again. I'm a little bit of an auditor's...
 auditor fangirl and when Jewel came to council the first time when I was here I had someone run to my office and grab that book so she could autograph it and I just want to say while all of us bring valuable and unique skills and gifts to City Hall it is a comfort to know that there is someone upstairs with specific qualifications
 who help hold us accountable and help us to stay the course. So I really appreciate the relationship with the city auditor, and I'm excited to sit in that conference room. Thank you. So as is tradition, we'd love to have a photograph. If we could do it in front, maybe that's the easiest, or wherever's auditor. You and Gary? You want to stay in your seat and just turn around?
 That might be easiest. That might be easiest. Do you want to just stay in your seat or do you want to stand? I don't care. Why don't you sit down and then I'll just turn your seat around in case it takes a while to get everything organized. And I'll just turn you around. Actually, we'll put you in the middle. We can slide over here. Auditor, could I get you to hold this? Sorry.
 Ready? One, two, clear for me. One, two, three. Excellent. Congratulations. Thank you again. Appreciate it. Thank you so much. Thank you. One, two, three. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Mayor. Thank you. Appreciate it. Mr. Auditor, thank you so much. Good to see you. Another day. That was wonderful. You look great.
 Congratulations on your re-election. I love that. I never forget that. I'd like to see that outline. I hope you'll enjoy it. Yeah, I think I will. I think you will too, Joe. I'll brush up on my parking.
 There. Although I appreciate your request. She is. That's great. Thank you. Is there a reception? Yes. Thank you. I know you do. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 There is a reception now to honor Jewel Lansing. It is in room 130 downstairs, otherwise known as the Jewel Lansing room. So enjoy the reception in room 130. Can we take a one-minute break? Yeah, we'll take a one-minute recess. We are back in session. Item number 500, please.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Home Forward for an annual amount of $640,000 to assist City of Portland utility customers that encounter barriers in paying water and sewer services. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. In 1995, Portland became one of the first big cities in the nation to offer low-income customers discounts on their utility bills.
 Portland has changed quite a bit since then, and the City Council has appropriately updated the financial assistance program from time to time over the last 20 years. The premise of our program has always been simple. Some of our neighbors need a little extra help. And over the past three years, the Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services have taken a number of steps to expand and improve the program.
 In 2015, I appointed a work group to find new ways to make sure all eligible customers knew about our programs and to see whether they could finally find a way to offer these benefits to renters. This work has continued since then. In the summer of 2017, our team, including Liam Frost, who has joined us today,
 Mayor, Liam has been stolen from us by the county and will be serving as Deborah Khafori's, Chair Khafori's housing advisor. But we're pleased that he is there and is serving as, to use the language of the day, a spy for the city. But we congratulate Liam on this very important assignment.
 But our team, including Liam Frost, picked up where that work group left off and started working closely with nonprofit community partners to put together a proposal. Last October, the city auditor audited the program and gave us recommendations to help us assist more customers. All of this work is coming together in this year's budget, which implements the changes Liam and our team developed to make historic investments to expand the program.
 The item before us today will, for the very first time, allow us to reach cost-burdened renters in apartments with our programs. Let me say that again because this is a historic moment. This program, as proposed for the first time, will allow us to reach cost-burdened renters in apartments with our programs. We're proposing to expand a proven approach with Home Forward and other community social service agencies.
 and I'm pleased that many of our key partners are with us today. Here's the run of show. First, we'll hear from the Portland Water Bureau team and invited testimony, and then we'll have council discussion and more public testimony, and the vote will be scheduled next week. I want to acknowledge and invite forward our first panel, Gabe Salmer, Deputy Director of the Portland Water Bureau, and Kathy Cook, Customer Service Manager,
 We also have Ian Singerlin, who's the Director of Homeless Initiatives at Home Forward, who I think is on the second panel, but he's crashing the first panel. So welcome as well. And, Gabe, take it away. Thank you so much. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners.
 My name is Gabe Salmer. I'm the Deputy Director of the Portland Water Bureau. And I will just start by saying thank you for hearing this important issue. This is really an exciting time to bring this milestone to you. And you have been a big part of this. This has been part of the budget. And so while we're talking about just a piece of our financial program today, you have really been with us all the way in creating this.
 I'm very proud to introduce the presenters for today. Joining me are Kathy Cook, the Water Bureau's Customer Service Director, who will explain a little bit more about the low-income services that the Bureau offers and how the multifamily program fits into that suite of services, and Ian Slingerland, the Homeless Initiatives Director at Home Forward, to walk you through how our agreement connects the Water Bureau to a trusted and existing program.
 And then in our second panel, we will hear from David DiMatteo from the Latino Network on his perspective of how multifamily assistance programs benefits the communities that he serves. And close our invited testimony with Janice Thompson, the Advocacy Director at the Citizens Utility Board, who's been a leading voice in oversight for the Bureau in this and many other issues. Thank you.
 We also have Karen Moynihan from the City Attorney's Office, Jonas Beery from BES, Elliot Lysak, and Ashley Jaden from the Water Bureau, should you have any questions that they can help answer. And I do want to acknowledge some additional special guests today. The service providers watching here and at home that have made this day possible, with their dedication to our multifamily communities for many, many years, thank you.
 AARP, Elders in Action, Latino Network, Self-Enhancement Inc., Human Solutions, I believe ALA is here today, El Programa Hispano, Impact Northwest, ERCO, the Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization, NAYA, and I believe IRENA is here, and
 and the Native American Youth and Family Center, Independent Living Resources, and Age Friendly Portland. We are so grateful for their support in bringing you this program.
 I'd also like to thank the many Portland Utility Board members who have shaped this process and given feedback and support. And I want to acknowledge the auditor's office, and particularly Jennifer Scott, whose audit last year gave incredibly useful direction that we've woven into this and many of our other programs.
 And I will just give a special mention to Liam Frost, who has abandoned us, but is here today. And Liam was a crucial catalyst in bringing all of these pieces together. They all existed, but he was able to dedicate himself to this program over the year, and we wish him all the best in his new position. So just to provide a little bit of context,
 You'll remember that we were before you on this item in February for a work session, and that this also came up in the budget work session. But today we are here just to talk about the Intergovernmental Agreement, the IGA proposal. It's part of a larger package to strengthen and expand our existing services for low-income customers. And we thank you again for your support of those items in the approved budget.
 And now I want to turn it over to Kathy to talk about how we're leveraging an existing service to provide that utility assistance to our multifamily customers. Gay, before we recognize Kathy, can I just make one other comment? Commissioner Saltzman and I were talking offline before we came back live about how long the city has been working on this issue.
 And I just want to acknowledge that this is a challenge which utilities across the country have struggled with. And the reason that they have struggled is that the discount programs that most utilities offer operate off of usage, which means when a customer has a meter,
 the utilities track the amount of services used, and the discount is linked to your monthly bill. The challenge that we've had with renters is that most renters in this city don't have an individually metered service. That may change someday in the future if the city updates its building code and mandates that there be individual meters. But since many of the people that we're now trying to serve don't have a meter –
 It presented some very interesting and unique legal and practical challenges about figuring out how you could deliver the benefit to someone that you're not otherwise tracking the amount of water and services they're using. And it took some time, and I want to acknowledge Karen Monaghan and others in the city attorney's office who worked with us to come up with a practical solution.
 efficient and legal mechanism to extend the discount program to cost burdened renters. And this is sort of a historical day that we've gotten here, and this may be a model that other cities in the country choose to pursue. So I'm very proud that we're at this point. I'm very proud, too. And I think it's a testament to the excellent customer service work that we do in the Bureau that has led us to this point and has given us all of these pieces to put together to bring you today.
 Kathy? By the way, Kathy is the only employee of the Water Bureau who has a particular term in her contract that prohibits her from taking another job or retiring for any period of time. I do have one year, ten months.
 Good morning. As you know, we're already recognized across the nation as having one of the most generous and far-reaching financial assistance programs. We've recently been asked to present again regarding affordability at an American Water Works Association symposium in Washington, D.C., so we'll be doing that in August. As a reminder, there's only three out of ten water utilities across the nation that provide any kind of financial assistance at all.
 Our current program provides a bill discount, an annual crisis voucher, a safety net program for the unexpected, a fixture repair program for low-income homeowners, interest-free long-term flexible payment arrangements, and free water conservation kits. We've always been able to reach the owners and renters through a single-family residence program.
 But people who reside in multifamily units don't get a bill directly from us. We didn't have a way to reach them. In the past, we've struggled with the legal requirement of making sure the discount benefits the actual water user, as opposed to giving a discount on a landlord's bill and expecting them to pass it on to their tenant. We are thrilled about the opportunity to expand this program further, and for the first time ever, to assist low-income renters in multifamily units.
 We now have the opportunity to enter into an unprecedented partnership with Home Forward, who already has a proven program in place to make sure help gets where help is needed. I believe we're the first in the nation to take this approach.
 With funding provided by the Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services, Home Forward will be able to provide up to $500 a year to renters who reside in multifamily units within our service area and that are at risk of eviction as a way to help citizens remain in their homes.
 Providing assistance is not new for us. Providing assistance in this manner to these customers is new. The first year will be a learning and developing year. We will look at what worked well and where we can make improvements.
 On an equally good note, we are not only enhancing our program, we are enhancing our team. I'm very excited to announce that our new financial assistance program manager will be joining us on June 4th. She has years of experience working and living in multiple countries and serving culturally diverse communities here and abroad, and she can analyze data with the best of them.
 We will certainly report back to council with our first year results, but I'd like to hand it over to Ian to explain more about the short-term rental assistance program.
 Thanks. Mayor, commissioners, thanks for the opportunity to be here. Home Forward is the public housing authority that serves Multnomah County. We develop, own, and manage affordable housing and run a variety of rent assistance programs, the largest being the Housing Choice Voucher Program. In April, we served nearly 15,000 households across our housing and rent assistance programs in Multnomah County.
 For the last decade, Home Forward has administered the short-term rent assistance program, also known as STRAW, on behalf of jurisdictional and funding partners. Currently, STRAW consolidates funding from the City of Portland, Multnomah County, Home Forward, and the United Way.
 Through STRAW, Home Forward contracts with 19 different community agencies to deliver emergency and short-term housing assistance. The flexible housing assistance we provide is aligned with service capacity at our funded partners.
 so that partner agencies have the ability to work with families to take short-term housing and assistance and find ways to turn that short-term assistance into long-term housing stability. And, in fact, the performance metric that we use for the short-term housing program
 is housing retention after the end of assistance. And so the primary metric we're looking at is how many families maintained housing stability 12 months after the end of their assistance. The goal across the system is 70%, and as a program we've consistently met that benchmark over the last decade. Across the system, STRAL agencies provide a combination of eviction prevention, housing placement, and short-term motel vouchers.
 Straw combines multiple funding streams, and while some of the funding streams come with specific regulatory limitations, when packaged together, straw resources are flexible and support the range of expenses that families might need to either avoid eviction or get placed into new housing.
 This new partnership with the Water Bureau and BES will expand resources at agencies to provide eviction prevention rent assistance. We know that expanding our efforts to keep people from becoming homeless is a critical component of our broader efforts to end homelessness in our community.
 When we can intervene to prevent eviction, it limits devastating disruptions that families experience when they're displaced or experience homelessness. Preventing eviction enables families to maintain connections at school and at work and in their social networks. And we know that it's less expensive than finding new housing once a family is forced into homelessness.
 We look forward to building this partnership over the coming year, working with the Water Bureau and our agency partners to integrate this critical new resource into the existing straw service infrastructure. And we greatly value the leadership of the Water Bureau, Commissioner Fish, and this council in identifying strategies to protect the most vulnerable utilizers of our public utilities. Ian, thank you very much. And I just want to say that one of the features of this initiative
 that I'm especially proud of is the partnership with Home Forward. Instead of creating our own system and the bureaucracy that goes with that, we are partnering with a high performing, you know, state-owned company.
 community agency that has an existing program which will administer the funds. And I think that's actually smart government. And you have a good track record, the short-term rent assistance program. If I had one extra dollar every year left from the budget, I would put it into straw because we've seen the results in preventing people from losing their tenancy, preventing people from falling into homelessness, or rapidly rehousing people, as you've noted.
 So it's a great program, and we look forward to the partnership. Mayor, I have two other invited guests to bring forward. They are David DiMatteo, a family stability manager for the Latino Network, and Janice Thompson of the Oregon Citizens Utility Board. Welcome to both of you. Welcome and thank you. Dave, you want to go first? Thank you.
 Sure. Good morning. I'm David DiMatteo, Family Stability Manager from Latino Network. I just wanted to say thank you to the Mayor and City Council, in particular Commissioner Fish and Water Bureau staff who have been working so diligently to make this policy a reality. So as has been mentioned, this really innovative approach would allow us to extend the same benefits currently available to our account holder clients
 to low-income Water Bureau customers in our multifamily units. For Latino Network families, this could mean the difference between maintaining rental housing and being forced out into a shelter, onto a couch, or into the street.
 By allowing us to quickly deliver one-time assistance to households who are facing significant hardships, sudden loss of income, unexpected illness, or other unplanned-for expense, we can be a stitch in time that actually saves a family from going through something truly devastating.
 and completely unnecessary. I really couldn't be happier with the way that this policy developed. In particular, Liam Frost and Ashley Jaden meeting with our staff at Latino Network, going back months and months. It's been a very inclusive process. I believe that our voices were definitely heard and the need is being met. So thank you.
 Thank you very much. Janice, welcome. Janice Thompson, Oregon Citizens Utility Board, or CUB. CUB has been a longtime supporter of low-income customer assistance efforts in the private, both telecom and energy utilities, that has been so much of our work over our long history. So we carried this interest into our involvement in oversight of the
 Portland's public utilities. However, taking a look at these programs, the current or the programs prior to this action and this budget, there was really some, I think, unintended but unfortunate inequities in the Water Bureau BES Low Income Discount Program.
 Along the way, you know, I had conversations with Commissioner Fish's, folks in Commissioner Fish's office and Water Bureau staff about the, it's just a really intractable problem of how do you deal with the
 a program that, though robust, could, for very valid reasons, only be offered to public utility customers whose residents had its own meter, so they got a bill. And that dynamic means the discount primarily has been available to single-family homes, which are more likely to be owner-occupied. Increasingly, you know, the rent-burdened...
 are the ones who, you know, were particularly in need. So, however, all those dynamics meant that the discount couldn't be offered to most of those multifamily low-income renters.
 So the approach before you today I think reflects very innovative thinking that tackles this issue of coming at it from a whole different angle. I certainly hope that conversations I've had along the way with Water Bureau staff were helpful, but I want to really give a major tip of the hat to them for crafting the strategic partnership with Home Forward and its straw program. And also particularly...
 highlight the valuable and extensive input that was obtained from groups like Latino Network who have much needed insights for implementation success. So three final quick points. One just
 that Commissioner Fish mentioned is this is not a Portland only problem. And I just think that bears repeating in the press and whatnot. That just seems like, oh, Portland, they haven't been able to figure this out. Well, nobody else has either. This Portland approach is cutting edge and indeed does merit national attention. So it's kind of gratifying to hear that Kathy is going to, you know, be presenting at a national meeting of her peers. Okay.
 And the third point is that, you know, pending evaluation, expansion of this approach really needs to be, I think, considered. We're talking about $600,000 compared to, I think, in the ballpark of $6 million that goes to the existing, you know, discount program that, like I say, for lots of good reasons, isn't available to the low-income renter. So that's it.
 Good. Questions for our panel? Alex? Nope, that's very thorough. I'm appreciative of this work. Do we have public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up.
 Commissioner Fish, last word. I just want to acknowledge, Commissioner Fish, your leadership on this and your continued heart for people who are renting and who are low income. And thank you to you and Liam Frost for finding the solution. Thank you to Gabe Solmer, Cathy Cook, and everybody else who's been part of this. I think it's...
 phenomenal and I hope we will get a report back after a year because as was just pointed out it's still inequitable between homeowners and renters and I think that there may be some additional funding that could be used should it be successful that would be appropriate if it is successful so thank you very much for your willingness to keep an eye on it bring it back to us and again thank you Commissioner Fish.
 Yeah, you know, if I could also just say, if this were not a very, very complicated and thorny issue, somebody would have figured out how to solve it, and nobody has, as you said right up front. And I'm also appreciative that Commissioner Fish is not doing what every other commissioner
 elected official in the United States has done on this subject, which is ignore it and hope it goes away. Commissioner Fish is taking a principled stand, moving the ball forward. No, it will not be a perfect solution. I think we all acknowledge that, but it definitely moves the ball forward in a very important and significant way. And I'm really appreciative of that. So without further ado, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Next item, 501. 501? Yeah, is Dan? I believe he's pulling. We just lost the quorum anyway. One moment. Carla, on item 501, it's my understanding that Dan was pulling that back to his office. Had he given you any direction to that? I didn't have that information. All right, with that, let's call 506, please. Is Dan coming back? Thank you. Thank you.
 506, please. 506. Amend fee schedules for building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and land use services. This is the second reading. Any further questions, comments? Great. Thank you. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Wheeler. Good job. Aye. Coordinates is adopted. Next, item 507. Amend fee schedules for tree permits. Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, and I'm happy to welcome City Forester Jen Cairo, who will tell us about this item. Good morning, Commissioner. Morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner Fish. I'm Jen Cairo. For the record, the City Forester and Urban Forestry Division Manager, and I'm presenting today the proposed fee increases for tree permits that will be implemented starting in the new fiscal year, 18-19. Keep going. Okay, thanks. Sorry. Thank you.
 Urban forestry's development fee permits, tree permit costs, partially cover the cost of performing urban forestry's regulatory work as directed by City Code Title 11, the Tree Code. Our objective since Title 11 implementation in 2015 has been to move towards full cost recovery in certain permit types over several years.
 Currently, in this fiscal year, urban forestry's development tree permits are at 44% cost recovery, resulting in a funding gap of more than $1 million. By comparison, other development permit-issuing bureaus are at 75% to 100% cost recovery for those services. Thank you.
 In the meantime, urban forestry's development permit volume has increased substantially since 2015, while our staffing levels have remained relatively constant.
 So further background on these proposed fee increases. These are part of budget package PK33, which is in the current approved budget. And these proposed increases to development permit fees, as almost all of the proposed increases are in the development rather than the non-development side of permits,
 are associated with that budget package. And that budget package was created to respond to the mayor's directive to expedite development permitting and increase service levels. In September of 2017, the city auditor also released a report on Title XI implementation, which stated that urban forestry had insufficient staffing and recommended increasing financial support through fees to try to bridge that gap. So this is a result of those items. Okay.
 These increased development tree permit fees will allow us to add nine new positions to our division, and that will enable us to reorganize our staff so that those staff who do permit service work will no longer have to be pulled off of permit work to respond to tree emergencies 24-7 and city rights-of-way.
 If you look at attachment B in your packet, that lists out the specific fee changes. Again, these are almost all to development type tree permit requirements rather than non-development. And if you look at the first column, that's the current fee. The fourth column is the proposed new fee. And you'll see the third column is what the actual cost is.
 So in most cases, we're increasing on the order of $200 per permit, bringing most closer to full-cost recovery, and in a few instances, the new fee would put us at current full-cost recovery. And I would just interject that the intention is to bring it to full-cost recovery next year.
 And as a reminder, we're speaking about the development tree permit fees right now. We also have a lot of permit activity in non-development. And in those cases, we have to think carefully about creating barriers to compliance with our permit fees. So we expect that some of those will always need to be in less than full-cost recovery to some degree. Thank you.
 This information was presented to the Development Review Advisory Committee in April and also the Urban Forestry Commission in May. And as a result, there was discussion at those meetings around the relationship between system development charges and...
 permits adapting in the future to fluctuations in economic conditions as well as permit volumes. There was also some discussion of compliance and would we be at some point capturing compliance, code compliance needs in costs, in our fee rates, rather.
 And also the final comment was the pace of moving to full-cost recovery, that some folks wanted to see it move a little more quickly, although we've committed to doing that at a more gradual pace. So aside from the development tree permit fee changes, we're also proposing a new tree root inspection fee.
 It is a low rate that will partially recover some of the cost of doing that work. Prior to this year, we haven't had a means to effectively implement charging at all for that service. Thankfully, we've been working with the Bureau of Transportation on their online payment system, which will make it possible for this actually to be implemented. That's all I have for you. Any questions, I'd be happy to try to answer them. Colleagues, any questions? Thank you.
 Any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Great work. Thank you. Back to item 501, please. Amend City Comprehensive Financial Management Policy 2.04. Commissioner Saltz. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to return this to my office for a couple weeks. Very good. Next item, please. Item 508.
 amend the transportation fee schedule to incorporate the multimodal incentive fees for the pre-approved transportation demand management plan per City Code Chapter 17.107 and exempt affordable dwelling units from the multimodal incentive fee until June 30, 2020. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I want to call up staff to...
 I thought you were moving this one to tomorrow afternoon. Oh, that's right. I'm sorry. Could I move this to tomorrow afternoon for our 2 o'clock time certain? 2.30. 2.30. Okay. Sorry. 2.30 time certain. Sorry about that. Yeah. It's 2 p.m. 2 p.m.? Yes. 2 p.m. Okay. 2 p.m. Good. Very good. Next item, 509, please. 509, revised transportation fees, rates, and charges for fiscal year 2018-19 and fix an effective date.
 Very good. Commissioner Saltzman. Yeah, thank you, Mayor. This is Transportation's yearly update to their fees and charges, and we have staff here to quickly walk us through the item and answer any questions Council may have. And this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Morning. Commissioner Saltzman. Oh, could you turn that mic on? It got turned off. Thank you. Is that better? Yeah, the green light. Yes, you're right. It's on. All right, great. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Willett, Commissioners. I'm Alex Bejarano, Utilities Constructing and Inspection Division Manager in the Development Committee and Transit Group of the Bureau of Transportation. With me is Michael Jacobs in the Parking Division of the Parking Services Group of PBOT. Today, PBOT is submitting its annual fee ordinance for your consideration. Through this effort, PBOT presents its fees in a transparent and predictable manner. This annual update of transportation fees, rates, and charges are developed in accordance with city policy
 The rates in this ordinance become effective July 1st, 2018 through June 30th, 2019. However, the current community event fee structure for 2018 will remain in place until December 31st of this year and on January 1st, 2019, the new Exhibit H will go into effect. The reason for this offset fee schedule for Exhibit H is to avoid fee changes in the middle of the highest demand for the community events, which is mid-summer.
 PBOT made this change due to feedback received during our public outreach efforts redeveloping the community events program this last year. It is important to note that this ordinance, PBOT, is not changing or modifying any existing administrative rules or policies, nor does this fee ordinance add any positions or adjustment to the proposed budget.
 In developing our fees, PBOT relies on a cost recovery model to carry out specific requests from customers in reviewing and providing permissions to persons wanting to use or construct within the public rights of way. In some cases, our fees are market rate, while others include incentives and consequences. PBOT makes every attempt to be responsive to the public as we develop or overhaul new or existing programs. One example of this is the fees associated with block party permits.
 This permit type is now fee free, excuse me, based upon feedback we received during our outreach efforts. Most of the fee increases you may see are the result of inflation and because of development and growth within our city. To further discuss and highlight some of the more noble items and changes for the parking and regulatory fee schedules, I will turn the presentation over to Michael Jacobs. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Morning. Good morning.
 The parking and regulatory group with PBOT uses rates for on and off street parking to manage parking supply and demand. Rates serve PBOT to manage parking demand, ensuring short-term parking is a priority for turnover while supporting city goals for economic vitality. The regulatory branch of PBOT sets fees for private for hire transportation, permitting, and towing. In parking operations, over half of the fees are staying the same. Some of the changes I wanted to highlight and include with the APP permits...
 The increase goes from $60 to $75 annually, in part because there's been no increase over the last five years. And staff has been added to administer the program that has grown substantially from under 20,000 permits per year to nearly 35,000 permits annually. In the disabled parking program, monthly permit increased from $182 to $189, which still allows for a 10% discount off of the market rate.
 The scratch-off tickets from $2.40 to $6 is based on the current meter rates. With carpool media and nonprofit permits, we're looking at an annual approximately 10% increase in order to manage demand of our limited parking supply. With Smart Park is seeing a number of rate adjustments, which were shared with the Portland Business Alliance and the Downtown Retail Council, and they had no objections to our proposals.
 The adjustments are based on market rate and parking system management criteria. And then a couple of housekeeping items with the parking permits. We had unusual circumstance permits and replacement permits. Historically, they've been listed as variable rates. They, however, really don't vary. And so we're listing them at $90 and $15, respectively. And at this time, I'd like to – we'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have. What's an unusual circumstance permit? I mean –
 Can you give us an example of an unusual circumstance? Because I work in Smart Park, I'm going to ask somebody from parking operations to come up and answer that. I mean, that's okay. I was just curious. I'm sorry. I don't have an example for you. Just caught my attention. Okay. Public testimony? That makes it easy. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency. No one signed up. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. Okay. Next item, 510. 510. So, Jason.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the structural rehabilitation of Taggart Outfall 30, project number E10220, for an estimated cost of $8 million. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, it appears that our team is not here for whatever reason. So with your permission, I'd like to set this over until next week. Very good. Thank you.
 What? Here he is. That's a very dramatic entrance. I apologize. I was hustling over here. Scott Gibson. So, okay, I withdraw my request. Mayor and colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services needs to repair about 3,700 feet of the 110-year-old brick Taggart outfall so that it can operate for another century. Okay.
 The 100-foot diameter brick outfall conveys combined sewer flows away from the city's largest basin in southeast Portland during heavy rainfalls. Scott Gibson, principal engineer from the Bureau of Environmental Services, is here with a brief presentation. Scott? Thank you. Good afternoon. Good morning. I apologize for the late arrival. Thank you.
 So for the record, my name is Scott Gibson. I'm a principal engineer at City of Portland Bureau of Environmental Services, and I'm here to tell you a little bit about the Taggart sewer and request your authorization for a construction contract. The sewer under consideration today is a 10-foot diameter brick outfall. It was built in 1906. The sewer conveys combined sewage from the city's largest basin, which we call Taggart. In the picture at the top...
 Of this slide, you can see the brick sewer where it was recently exposed during construction of the Portland-Milwaukee light rail train. The outfall was found to have deterioration while conducting inspections of our large sewers. And in the middle picture, you see two members of our engineering team preparing to be lowered into the sewer as a part of our inspection and assessment work. The project will construct 3,400 feet of structural liner system to extend the useful life of the outfall for an additional 100 years.
 In the lower picture, you see a typical installation of tunnel liner plate, which is the chosen repair methodology for this project. The repair results in a new steel structure assembled within the pipe designed to resist the predicted loads. The project map shows the location of the sewer and specifically identifies the areas where the workers and materials will enter the sewer to conduct the repair.
 The orange circles show where work will be conducted after hours. The purple circles show where work will be limited to normal hours. There are two example photos. The one on the top is an industrial area where we will be working 24-7. And the lower section is an example where there are residences within 500 feet and we'll be limiting our activities to during the day. Scott, hold this slide for a second. I want to ask my colleagues a question. I don't want to prompt them, but this slide might be helpful.
 Who is the only six-star general in American history? Pershing. General Pershing, right in the middle of the slide. Who's the non-Native American here? You must have taken some history tests. Actually, he's famous worldwide. Actually, some people say he and George – apparently George Washington might have taken a six-star, but Pershing in the modern era is the only six-star general. Thank you. That's why you can make some money in a bar on that one, because people assume it stops at five.
 So the, excuse me. I've learned two things today. One, the name of the biggest basin is called Taggart. I'm going to remember that one because that's going to come up in a quiz sometime. And then the six star general. Six star general. Yep. The fun never ends. All right. So the Taggart sewer has served the city well for 112 years. Day and night it has quietly transported sewage and rainfall away from our homes and businesses where it could be safely treated and disposed of. However, it now requires some attention.
 Inspections conducted by the Bureau identified voids, cracks, broken and missing brick, missing mortar, protruding laterals and other defects that require repair. This map shows the locations of the defects along the sewer and you can note the intensity and density of the defects by the yellow, orange and red areas.
 The Bureau has also estimated the risk of sewer failure caused by the identified defects. In this figure, you can see the area of inundation caused by a structural collapse of a 50-foot section. You see where the yellow dot is. We modeled in several locations, but this is for that example. Properties outlined in red are those that would be flooded should the sewer failure fail there.
 The map also colored areas that would be impacted by surface inundation. That's the blue and the green. And note that the new max orange line would be impacted in this scenario. As a part of our project, we ran multiple failure scenarios and estimated the consequences and likelihood of the failure of each scenario. And this work was used to confirm that the project should proceed now and also to help us determine the intensity of the repair selection, the repair method.
 The Bureau has worked hard to involve and inform residents about the project. On this slide are two of the many communications prepared by the project team. The selective repair can be constructed from within the existing pipe, and this will be the biggest factor in minimizing the impacts to residents. However, to take advantage of Portland's dry season, and this work can only be conducted when it's not raining due to sewer flows, Environmental Services will work all hours and all days
 in the industrial areas between Southeast Grand and Southeast 16th Avenue and adjacent to Light Rail. Other work where there are residential impacts will be limited. And the project team will continue our outreach efforts to those impacted throughout construction and address any and all concerns as they are raised. The estimated cost for the construction contract is $8 million. The level of confidence in this estimate is high.
 If approved, construction is scheduled for the dry season of 2019 with some advanced work by the contractor in the sewer this summer or late fall. This figure offers details of the proposed sewer rehabilitation and shows the location of the spot repairs. If there are any questions, I'm happy to take them.
 Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 511.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Sunnyside North Reconstruction and Green Streets Project, number E10367, for an estimated cost of $9.9 million. Colleagues, this is the second reading of an item that's already been presented. We've already received testimony. Are there any further questions? Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 512. And I'm told that there is a request that it also be read with item 517, both of which are second readings.
 512, revised sewer and stormwater rates, charges, and fees in accordance with the fiscal year 2018-2019 sewer user rate study. And 517.
 authorized rates and charges for water and water-related services during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019 and fix an effective date. Again, colleagues, these are second readings. Any further questions or comments for staff on these items? So we're voting on them together? No, we're going to vote on them separately, but since they're separated, if there were follow-up questions, we just didn't want staff sticking around. Thank you.
 Very good. Please call the roll on 512. Fish. Well, no one likes to pay more for a basic service, but I'm pleased to report that for the fifth year in a row, we have been able to keep the combined rate increases of our water, sewer, and stormwater customers below 5%. We are heading closer to 4%.
 And that's a significant milestone with the city's calculation of inflation at about 3.5%. The delta is getting much closer.
 On the Bureau of Environmental Services side, we are looking in the out years now at a number of years at approximately 3% rate increase. That's below the rate of inflation. And that rate increase includes, built into it, is a commitment this council has made over the next 10 years to get to functional sustainability in our system, meaning
 to get all of our assets in good or better condition, making BES perhaps the first utility of its kind in the nation to be able to achieve that milestone.
 So we're making historic investments while also stabilizing rates. I'm very pleased and grateful to all of our oversight bodies, the Citizens Utility Board, the Portland Utility Board, all the members of the public, actually in this case one member of the public, who came and testified at our rate hearing. The feedback we got from our budget hearings and just the general information that the public shared with us
 We are on a good path. We're providing basic services at a fair value. I'm honored to be the commissioner in charge of our utilities, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 So I agree with you, Commissioner Fish, and thank you for your work on this. I actually am glad to pay more in order to be able to get the system onto a sustainable path and to fix it so that we're not passing on a burden of debt to our children and grandchildren. So thank you for figuring out how to do that. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll on 517. This second matter is the rates for the Water Bureau.
 There is common confusion in the public about the bill they receive. People generally refer to their bill as the water bill. I think sometimes people are surprised to learn that the water portion of their combined utility bill is about a third of the bill, and the rest is sewer storm water and other charges.
 I got an email the other day from someone saying they were fed up with high water rates, and my polite response was then don't move from Portland to a number of our suburban jurisdictions because when you look at our rates compared to some of our sister cities in the region, we're still a relative bargain. It is true that there is pressure on rates.
 in part because of our obligation to comply with federal regulatory schemes. And while there's a number that we're currently complying with, it may be in the future that Congress, in its wisdom, decides to impose more requirements. But nonetheless, when you get your bill, water is about a third, sewer storm water is about two-thirds,
 And when the presentation was made to council, I think people could see graphically that we are still in the middle of the pack among sister jurisdictions, again, providing good value at a fair price. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone. Next item, 513. Accept bids of Titan Utilities LLC and Iron Horse Excavation LLC. Aye.
 Doing business as Oxbow Construction for the price agreements for construction services at Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant, Tryon Creek Watershed Treatment Plant, and associated pump stations for $6 million. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. This procurement report is for the Bureau of Environmental Services for construction services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant,
 the Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, and associated pump stations. The project was bid to the city's Prime Contractor Development Program. The Prime Contractor Development Program provides minority and women certified contractors with increased prime contracting opportunities within the city of Portland. I would like to introduce Larry Pallat, Procurement Services Manager, and Paul Sudo, Principal Engineer from the Bureau of Environmental Services, to give us a brief presentation.
 Good morning. Morning. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, I remember it this time to put my name on the record. You have before you the procurement report recommending two price agreements to be awarded to Titan Utilities and Oxbow Construction for a total amount of $6 million. These price agreements for a two-year period will be utilized as the needs are presented in specific projects identified in the Portland Bureau of Environmental Services budget process.
 The task orders are limited to $500,000 maximum with an occasional exception for critical projects with the approval of the Chief Procurement Officer and the Bureau Director.
 On December 20, 2017, the Council approved Ordinance 188744 for the Chief Procurement Officer to competitively solicit for these services. The City advertised Bid No. 806. Two bids were received and opened on February 13, 2018. The bids were deemed responsive to the requirements of the solicitation. This recommended that the bids be accepted and the price agreements be executed. The City issued a Notice of Intent to award the price agreements April 9, 2018. No protests were received.
 This actually is the second time BES has engaged in this type of process. It's kind of internally referred to as the PARUS project. And they've determined that the time and effort savings based on this type is very significant.
 Interestingly, both of the firms, as mentioned by Commissioner Fish, are State of Oregon certified disadvantaged minority women in emerging small business firms. It was bid into the Prime Contractor Development Program for that reason. All of the work performed actually then ends up in certified firms. Both of these firms are very, very well noted for subcontracting to other DMWESB firms.
 So the overall utilization should be very significant. BES has a goal for these projects of a minimum participation level of 30%.
 So the standard methodology for this is for the bidders to predetermine and list their subcontractors at the time of the award. However, under this process, the bidders will determine their subcontractors at the time each task order is developed. This process allows the contractors to maximize the use of other disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business firms as the scopes of work become final. Both of these contractors have an excellent reputation for doing so.
 As mentioned, they are both State of Oregon certified firms, and they are in full compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements. If the council has any questions regarding the bidding process, I can answer those, or Paul Sudo from BES is here relative to the specific project. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues? All done. Any public comments on this? This is a report. Oh, I'm sorry. I'll entertain a motion then. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll.
 Thank you for your excellent presentation. Aye. Solskjaer. Aye. Fritz. Good work. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler.
 Well done. Aye. The court's adopted. Thank you all for your attention. Next item, 514, please. Approve fiscal year 2018-19 cost of living adjustments to pay rates for nonrepresented classifications and elected officials specify the effect upon employees in the classifications involved and provide for payment.
 Colleagues, the City Council sets the rates of pay for all non-represented classifications and elected officials. This ordinance provides non-representative classifications 3.6% increase effective 7-1-18, which is consistent with the increase that represented employees will receive per collective bargaining agreements. This ordinance also provides an increase of 3.6% to non-represented seasonal or casual employees'
 except for when a greater increase is mandated by state minimum wage requirements. The mayor and individual commissioners may request that their salaries be frozen at current levels. We have Elizabeth Nunes from HR here to discuss. Greetings. Greetings. My name is Elizabeth Nunes. I'm the classification. I apologize. I mispronounced your last name. Everyone does. Don't worry. Thank you. I'm from BHR. I'm the classification and compensation manager.
 And, well, Mayor Wheeler, you just took all my stuff away. I'm presenting the ordinance to create a 3.6% cost of living increase adjustment to the pay rates for all nonrepresented employees, the nonrepresented classifications, and elected officials.
 The cost for the current fiscal year, 2017-18, is zero. For the future, 2018-19 fiscal year, the total cost is just under $6.7 million. $3.1 million of that is going to be out of the general fund, and the remaining $3.6 million is for the non-general fund bureaus. Do you have any questions? I have a question. Commissioner Fish.
 So there are different measurements that people refer to for the rate of inflation.
 we use as part of our contract a particular formula which gets us in this instance to 3.6%. Can you just remind us how we get to 3.6% cost of living adjustment? Yes. I wish I were the city economist, but I'm not. Josh Harwood would really do a good job of explaining it. We have consistently, along with other public jurisdictions, used what's called the CPI-W, and it's –
 I believe a measure of the second half of the year, last year, brought forward with mathematical calculations to get us to what is expected to be an average for this year and going forward six months. That particular index, and there are a number of them, we've recently learned that they're doing away with it. So this is the last year we'll actually get to use it. Going forward, we're going to be using it
 I believe we've already figured out a new index to use, but this is the one that gets us to the most accurate prediction of both in the last six months and going forward six months what the average cost of living will be. There have been estimations that it should be higher than 3.6. I've heard...
 estimation is up to 5%, but we try and focus in on a consistent measuring tool, and that one this year is 3.6%.
 Just from recollection, a few years ago, when interest rates were really historically low, the COLA was, I think, under 1%. 0.9%. 0.9%. And is the rising cost of housing factored into this particular index? Yes.
 Housing is always a factor. Yes, it's housing, food, clothing, all the standard cost of living things that are considered in any geographical area. Okay, thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you, Elizabeth. Next item, 515, please.
 Revise secondhand dealer regulations to accept consular ID cards as identification, add gift cards as regulated property, and other housekeeping changes. Very good. And we have Terry Williams and Ann Holm here to discuss. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I guess we've gone to afternoon. Mayor and commissioners, I'm Terry Williams, the Revenue Division Deputy Director, or at least for a few more weeks. But before I talk about the ordinance, I want to introduce to you Tyler Wallace, who's up here. Tyler is the new Tax Division Manager for the Revenue Division. So he is in the future. While I'm doing the presentation today, Tyler is one that you'll expect to see up here giving presentations like this. Thank you, Tyler.
 Before you, let's see. The purpose of Chapter 14B.90 is to regulate certain business activities that present an extraordinary risk of being used by criminals to dispose of stolen property. We commonly refer to it as the secondhand dealer code. The ordinance before you today brings two key amendments to the secondhand dealer code in addition to some needed housekeeping changes.
 The first is the addition of a consular card as acceptable identification for customers that sell regulated property to secondhand businesses. The need for adding this form of identification was actually brought to Revenue's attention by the city's government relations office. A state legislator from Eugene reached out to government relations, identifying the need to recognize this piece of ID. They also considered a bill at the state, but it didn't pass.
 Not all countries' consular cards meet the requirements to be accepted. The cards must have requirements similar to our state's driver's license or ID cards. Currently, the Mexican Matricula consular card issued after 2014 meets the requirements. The second amendment is the removal of gift cards, in-store credit cards, and activated phone cards from the list of prohibited property.
 I'm going to refer to these types of cards as gift cards in general. So this means that secondhand dealer businesses are no longer prohibited from buying these gift cards and reselling them.
 The benefits of this change are twofold. It allows the dealers to meet customer demand and compete in the secondary market. But more importantly, by regulating the purchase of unused or partially used gift cards, valuable information will be entered into the RAPID database that will allow the Portland Police Bureau to identify people involved in retail theft.
 To be clear, the change does not impact the original sale of gift cards or phone cards from retailers such as Fred Meyer and Target and Best Buy. The second-hand dealer industry is supportive of this change. Dealers and retailers currently buying these cards would be required to obtain a second-hand dealer permit if they don't already have one.
 The reporting requirements when buying these cards from customers have been streamlined so that they are not excessively burdensome on the dealers or on the retailer once that permit is obtained. The information about the card and the seller, i.e., the customer, is reported in RAPID. That's the electronic reporting system that makes information about every regulated property transaction available to law enforcement.
 So if Council has additional questions about the ordinance, we have staff here to explain in more detail. Ann Holm, who's our program administrator from Revenue Division, and Officer Brent Bates, who is the rapid coordinator from the Portland Police Bureau. They are well-versed in all the details of this code. Thank you very much. And if you have questions, we're happy to answer them. I have a question. Are there regulations on how?
 discounted the dealers can buy the cards for? If you've got a $10 gift certificate, is there a minimum that they have to offer to the customer? I will get Anne up here and we'll see if she can answer that. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz, I couldn't hear what your question was. Is there a standard for how much or little a second-hand dealer has to offer to the customer? If they've got a $10 gift card from Fred Meyer, are they allowed to say, well, I'll give you a dollar for it?
 Yes, there's no minimum required. And then in general, do they then sell them at discounts as well? Yes. Interesting. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Any testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to the second reading. Thank you for your hard work on that. Next item, 516, the second reading.
 authorized limited tax revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed $10.5 million to finance replacement of aging fueling system infrastructure at multiple locations across the city. So we've already had a great presentation on this. We've taken public testimony. This is a second reading. Are there any further comments? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. As is the right of people to pull consent agenda items for further discussion, the entire consent agenda has been pulled today. Items 502.
 Extend grant agreements by one year and provide additional grant funding not to exceed $350,000 in aggregate with seven organizations providing services to youth in partnership with Portland Parks and Recreation. Is there... Who is...
 Who pulled this item? Joe Walsh did. Mr. Walsh is not here, and as is the tradition, items that are pulled from the consent agenda are read after the regular agenda, and that is so that we can have staff come to attend. He is not here. Colleagues, any further questions? Commissioner Fritz? I'm happy to give a one-minute summary. If you would like.
 As the council will remember, Portland Parks and Recreation gave a presentation on the team program, the expansion of the team program by previous mayor, Charlie Hales. And the following organizations have received pass-through money from the team program to implement the program.
 programs at the community center, Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization, Latino Network, Native American Youth and Family Center, Boys and Girls Club of Portland Metropolitan Area, Self-Enhancement, Inc., and Reaching and Empowering All People or REAP, Inc.,
 The grant agreements are set to expire June 18th, and Parks would like to extend the mechanism or process of providing funding. We'd like to extend the current grant agreement until June 2019 to allow time to create an equitable and financially sustainable process. Any further public testimony? No sign of action. Any further questions? This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Item 503, please.
 Pay property damage claim of L.E. in the sum of $25,514 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Who pulled this item? Joe pulled all these items. Is there any further public testimony on this item? Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 504.
 Authorize a grant agreement with Central City Concern in an amount not to exceed $47,500 for their Community Volunteer Corps Program. Any public testimony on this item? Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 505. Approve council minutes for January through June 2017. Mayor, I move the report.
 We have a motion. Second. We have a second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Saltzman seconds. Please call the roll. I'm sorry, Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. I will vote for this. I have not reviewed the six months of minutes, and I continue to think it's not transparent to have minutes that have been presented in batches of six months. However, that is what the auditor has chosen to do for many years now. I don't see it changing. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned.
 Alright, good afternoon everybody. This is the May 23rd, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, can you please call the roll? Fish Saltzman. Here. Udailey. Here. Fritz Wheeler. Still here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the City's business. The Presiding Officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meeting so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Thank you.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for your helping. Your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. So we have one large issue this afternoon, and we will...
 dispose of each of these individually after testimony, but Carla, could you please read them all together? 518, 519, and 520, please. 518, amend code pertaining to private for hire transportation in the city.
 519, study transportation network company liability and personal injury protection insurance coverage and develop a proposal for a driver regulatory board. And 520, conduct a traffic congestion study of the City of Portland with an emphasis on understanding taxi and transportation network company service.
 So I would just like to thank Commissioner Saltzman for bringing this package of proposals forward. Over the past several years, as I'm sure everyone in this room is well aware, the transportation network companies in our area have changed the landscape for private companies.
 for higher driving in the city of Portland. And I want to make it very clear, Commissioner Saltzman, I fully support your approach and the Bureau recommendations to take the time to fully vet proposals so we understand the changes and the impacts they'll have on drivers, customers, and businesses. So thank you for your leadership on this. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor, and welcome, everybody.
 As the Mayor said, we're here this afternoon to discuss Portland's private-for-hire regulations and the industry. And it is certainly a dynamic and changing industry. It's hard to believe it's only been three years since transportation network companies Uber and Lyft landed in Portland. And we'll hear shortly how they are impacting the personal transportation options of Portlanders and visitors to our city. But it is important to also remember that the Portland Bureau of Transportation...
 regulates all private-for-hire options in the city. And that includes everything from a taxi to a 12-person human-powered proof cycle. And part of this regulatory framework is hearing from the operators through our advisory board, the private-for-hire industry, through our advisory board for the private-for-hire industry. And we'll hear from a few of their members shortly. So as the mayor said, we have three items before us.
 The first is an ordinance with revisions to City Code Chapter 16.40. Second is a resolution directing the Bureau of Transportation to do outreach with industry and study the adequacy of insurance in the taxi and T&C industries, as well as best practices in creating a transportation network company driver regulatory body. And then third, we will have a resolution directing the Bureau of Transportation to
 to dig into congestion and how transportation network companies may be impacting congestion in Portland. Director Leah Treat will start us off, and we'll have a very short PowerPoint presentation on these items. Following that, we will have a few panels of invited testimony, specifically members of the advisory board, then some representatives of important users of the system, Nicole Cheron from the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and Michelle Graham.
 with Travel Portland. And then we will invite representatives Uber and Lyft to the table for some statements. And finally, I believe Commissioner Fish has a panel of guests he'd like to invite up concerning the driver's body. And then we'll open it up to general testimony. But before we get going, we just have a couple housekeeping items to address before the panels come up. Before you is a memo that was prepared by the Bureau of Transportation today
 That outlines a few quick edits we need to make to the ordinance with the proposed code amendments. So I'd like to move those and hopefully get a second. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fish. These are largely Scribner's errors, so why don't we call the roll? Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. So it changes the specifics of the reporting of crashes.
 and just changes it to completing and submitting the PBOT vehicle crash report. Am I correct in ensuring that that has all of the previously listed information, like the date and time, location, claim status?
 Yes, so the change in there, the error that we had in there originally was that the vehicle crash report is – the change we intended to make was to make the driver responsible for the crash reports. By making that change, we left in a section in there that also required the driver to report when a company went bankrupt, and that's not the driver's responsibility.
 The new language, though, isn't completely matching the old language, so it's no longer saying – it's actually saying any crash has to be reported on the vehicle or PBOC crash report, not just ones that are reportable to the state. That requirement is still in there, Commissioner. It's just in another section of the code. Ah.
 So everything that's also listed that's been deleted on what I have here, like the date, time, location, claim status, that's somewhere else? That's correct. Thank you. That's correct. That's also part of the form that's online, and that's one of the reasons for the change is we have implemented an online form to capture this information electronically. Great. Thank you. Very good. Since these are minor and technical amendments, I'll go ahead and call the roll. Fish? Fish?
 Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Are there any other? Yeah, I was just going to say, Commissioner Fritz, I believe, has an amendment to the resolution on insurance and drivers regulatory board. I'm so glad you mentioned that. I do. And then I think Commissioner Fish also has an amendment. So why don't we go with Commissioner Fritz first, and then we'll have Commissioner Fish. And colleagues, just before we go, just so I understand your will.
 These are more substantive amendments, so I assume we'll put them on the table and keep them open for testimony. Is that your understanding? Yes. Very good. If you wouldn't mind going with Commissioner Fish's first. Commissioner Fish. Thank you. So, Mayor, I guess what we're looking for is a second, lay it on the table, and then act on it at some later time. So I have an amendment to the Council Resolution 519. I'll hand it out. And...
 The amendment would change the be it further resolved as follows.
 Be it further resolved that the Council directs PBOT to begin collecting TNC rideshare data to learn more about the industry and work with City Council offices, community stakeholders, and TNC drivers and organizations representing TNC drivers to develop a proposal to create a new oversight body that focuses on...
 transparent collection and use of data, accessibility, wages, public safety, safety and reliability for passengers, equalizing standards across the four higher sector, and equitable dispute resolution, and to report back to Council within six months. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish and a second, and this is 2-519. 2-519. I'm ready now.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. And I believe mine is to 518, and it's to the resolution. Am I correct, Commissioner Saltzman, it's just 518? That's the ordinance. I think you're talking about 519, I believe. All right. Thank you very much. Sorry, my paperwork's out of order here, unusually. So I move to add to report back to council within six months.
 after the study areas and to delete the last sentence, which is be it further resolved that the council directs PBOT to report to council after completion of the study. So in other words, I'm saying it's going to report within six months rather than just whenever it's finished. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz and a second. Commissioner Udaly, did you second that? Yes. And a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any other amendments to put on the table?
 Commissioner Saltzman. OK, we'll turn it over to Director Leah Treat now. Great. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, Mayor Wheeler, and commissioners. As you well know, the private for hire transportation sector is one of the most dynamic and varied parts of our transportation system. This is an area that is constantly evolving. It's very dynamic. It's very disruptive. And more private for hire transportation options are likely to become available in our future.
 When we started this three years ago, the private for hire sector was providing about 2 million rides a year. That number has grown now to more than 10 million. That's a 500% increase. So not only does the sector provide millions of rides, but it also generates a significant number of jobs, and it's an important driver in our local economy. No, excuse me. Thousands of Portlanders, including many immigrants and refugees, find employment as drivers in the city of Portland. Okay.
 As the agency responsible for overseeing this sector, our mission is to provide oversight that protects the safety of consumers. We want to ensure equitable service that meets the needs of all Portlanders, and we want to guarantee fair competition between the various service providers.
 A significant tool that we use to accomplish this mission is Chapter 16.40 of the Administrative Code. And so we're here today to present our proposed changes to the code and to provide you with an overview of the current state of our private-for-hire system. I do want to highlight some of the most essential changes we would like to make. Number one, we want to explicitly ban grayballing.
 Number two, we want to take steps to address your concerns about insurance, a congestion study, and a driver's board through proposed council resolutions. And three, we want to strengthen our regulatory authority with regards to background checks to provide further public protection.
 I am joined, sorry I didn't do this at the beginning, I'm joined with Dave Benson and Mark Williams. And before I turn the presentation over to them, I'd like to show you a brief video that we've put together that captures what we do in this industry. And it features a lot of the diverse voices in our private for hire sector. My name is Andrea Lenz and I am the owner of the Brew Cycle. Robert Hamilton, I'm a career taxi cab driver in Portland, Oregon.
 My name is Sherry Davis Warren. I've been a full-time Uber and Lyft driver for the last two years. My name is Abdi. I work for New York City Cab. My name is Peter Krakowski. I'm a cab driver in the city of Portland. My name is Isa Adan. I'm from Somalia. I grew up in Kenya and I live in Portland for nine years. My name is Alan Wasey and I've been driving for myself since October 2007. My name is Dave Weedrick and I'm a professional chauffeur for a classic chauffeur company.
 I came here for a visit, and I love the nature. I love the people. And I just called my roommate in Dallas, say, hey, whatever I have, give it to Salvation Army. I don't think I'm going to come back.
 When I was laid off a couple of years ago, my mother-in-law, who is also an Uber driver, kind of got me on the bandwagon. I've been doing it ever since. Portland born and raised, went to Grant High School, Irvington Grade School, grew up by the Lloyd Center. I have friends who live here, so they say, hey, come to Oregon if you get a chance to come to America. You come to Portland, Oregon. I'm like, Oregon? Is that like America?
 I moved to Portland in 2011, June 3rd, and I had one of these bikes delivered on my doorstep June 24th. So moved here with the specific mentality that I was gonna start the big giant bike business. Back in the late 70s, I worked for the company, went off and got a corporate career, retired about five and a half years ago, and can't get it out of my blood, so I'm back at it.
 Driving jobs overall get kind of a bad rap. I think it's important to realize that it is actually a very skilled position and there's kind of an art and a finesse to being able to provide an exceptional experience. Your job is safely take them from point A to point B, wherever they want to go.
 It's a lot of tourists, especially in summertime, coming in and out. You've got to show them how nice and how friendly we are. So make them come back. We all have the same connection in that we're helping people, whatever the vehicle is, it's a wonderful safe experience.
 Being able to move here and then be part of people's celebrations with this two-hour pub crawl was really important to me. And be able to show off kind of what Portland's proud of. So the biking culture and the brewing community. It's a lot of fun because you never know where the day's going to take you. Well, I'm a people person, first of all. I love people. And every customer we get, we don't know where they're going. It could be to the coast. It could be...
 10 blocks away. It's always a mystery, an adventure, every time we get a customer in the car. Some of them, they just want to talk, you know? They were on the plane all day and long hours, and once you talk to them, they feel, like, relieved and comfortable. One of the things I really enjoy about it is just being able to make that human connection with each and every one of my riders. I get a lot of personal satisfaction out of that.
 There's a lot of people that I met that are good people, you know. One day you're going to be sick and you need help, you know, so it's kind of feeling to give back first, then get it back later on. I'm a taxi man. Came with my taxi. Till I die. All right. That's about it. Is that okay? That was great, by the way. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So, again, I'm Mark Williams, and thank you for having us here this afternoon. I'm the Regulatory Division Manager with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. In 2016, Council approved major changes to Chapter 1640 of the Portland City Code, and today we're here to present timely updates. Before we get to those revisions, I would like to highlight how the industry is performing today. Thank you.
 As Leah described, since 2015, we've seen the number of rides provided by taxis and TNCs steadily increase. Last year, they collectively provided nearly 10 million rides that originated within our city. Based on the current ride trends, we expect to see a 3 to 4 percent increase this calendar year. One council priority is that all areas of Portland are being serviced by taxis and TNCs, and we've been carefully monitoring the service levels throughout the city.
 The map on the left illustrates levels, service levels by zip code during the pilot period in 2015 between the months of May and August. The map on the right illustrates the service levels in 2017 during the same calendar months. As you can see, service levels have increased in the central city, but more excitingly, it has also increased in historically underserved areas by more than 270 percent,
 That's about a 2.3 million ride increase. It has also been a council priority that service is available 24 hours a day, every day. This bar chart illustrates average rides per hour throughout the city for the 2017 calendar year. This chart illustrates that all areas are receiving service during all hours of the day, and most of the rides occur between 6 p.m. and 12 a.m.
 While we need more data to evaluate whether there is a direct connection, the data implies that Portlanders are choosing to take taxis or TNCs in the evening, potentially reducing the number of impaired drivers. The regulatory division has been busy keeping our public riders safe and educating our drivers. In 2017, we conducted more than 3,200 infield compliance checks on drivers.
 During a compliance check, we take a secret shopper type approach by observing the driver's conduct, and we identify ourselves to the driver and inspect the driver's paperwork and insurance and inspect the vehicle for any obvious immediate safety hazards. The field compliance audits don't stop there. When staff members return to the office, they also review the driver's driving history to make sure that they have not acquired any new traffic violations that may prevent them from driving private for hire.
 You may recall that the city auditor conducted an audit on the private for hire transportation program in October 2016. The report recommended that we conduct more compliance checks focused on the aspects of the industry that puts the public at greatest risk, like unpermitted drivers and companies, and we're working to adjust our practices. This invaluable work is primarily funded by the 50-cent rise surcharge. Our commitment to keeping the public riders safe doesn't stop there.
 The Regulatory Division has teamed up with the PBOT Active Transportation and Safety Team to achieve a Vision Zero goal, the Safe Ride Home Program. We are working with our industry partners to offer discounted transportation options on targeted holidays and community events so that the riding public has a way to get home safely after a night of celebrating.
 PBOT kicked off the Safe Ride Home program last New Year's Eve and has offered service three times so far this year. To date, this program and our partners have offered about 3,500 discounted rides. We are working very closely with the Portland Police Bureau to identify future events, and we hope to make this an ongoing annual occurrence. The program and many of the discounts are being funded by the 50-cent ride surcharge. Uber and Lyft have also made additional contributions.
 We're also very excited to introduce PDX Wave, which will launch this summer. We have long heard from community members that on-demand wheelchair accessible service improvements were needed in the city. City code requires service within 30 minutes, and we wanted to take it a step further. PDX Wave is a centralized dispatch service that will enable community members to call one number, 503-865-4WAVE.
 and request an on-demand wheelchair accessible vehicle. For customer, PDX Wave offers an easy and reliable way to get on-demand service. For transportation providers, the program provides a financial incentive to drivers and a subsidy to help offset the higher cost of maintaining accessible vehicles. This program is entirely funded by the 50-cent ride surcharge, and we anticipate offering a free accessible ride day during an upcoming community event.
 Now I'd like to take a few moments to go over some of the significant code modifications you'll see in Exhibit A. Since its implementation, we have repeatedly heard concerns from taxi representatives about the 50-cent customer-borne ride surcharge.
 The concerns range from the surcharge resulting into lower driver tips, the company's inability to collect surcharges from drivers that accept cash fares, and the company's feel that they are paying significantly more in surcharges than they ever paid under the traditional permit model. Commissioner Saltzman's office held a listening session and invited industry representatives to provide feedback.
 Some of the taxi representatives reiterated their concerns about the surcharge. For these reasons, a proposal was submitted to the advisory committee to reinstate permit fees to taxis instead of the 50 cent surcharge. The proposal was further discussed in a subcommittee who recommended approval.
 During the most recent committee meeting, the Taxi Driver Committee member asked that we table the proposal without taking a vote, and the committee supported that request. With that said, we still believe that these changes are important, and we have included those in our code modifications today. I should also note that these changes represent a reduction of about $400,000 in fees collected by the city.
 Public safety is our top concern and we have a responsibility to the public to verify that all drivers meet the city's qualifications outlined in code. We have spoken in length with our colleagues in King County in the Seattle area regarding their background viewing process. We're proposing that we change our process to mirror the King County model, further safeguarding the public. Currently, companies are allowed to run background checks on their drivers.
 Of those companies that choose to run background checks, we review a random sample. Our goal is to review 10% of the company-run background checks. The new process would require the city to review 100% of the background checks conducted by companies. When we have questions about a driver's background check, we have the option of running an additional background check. We would use this as the circumstance warrants, and this would be the exception.
 This was presented to the advisory committee, but they did not support adopting this change because they felt the current system was adequate for screening drivers and because they did not support the additional costs associated with this step. As we attempt to better understand how traffic congestion impacts our city, it's important to understand the private for hire impacts as part of the larger picture. By requiring GPS coordinates, we can study the system impacts down to the street level.
 As Council is aware, in 2014 Uber deliberately blocked regulators from performing their duties under Chapter 1640. We're proposing new language that prohibits companies and drivers from blocking or altering the presentation of any information or denying access to their company app to any city employee authorized to enforce. We believe the current code prohibits this behavior already, but the new language makes it clear that this is unacceptable.
 In addition to these modifications, we've made a few other edits to clarify existing language or to correct some of the errors. And I'd like to go over a few of those right now. The ability to cancel permit or a certification issued in error. Because companies have the ability to self-certify their drivers, if they make a mistake, this gives the city the authority to actually cancel that permit rather than going through a suspension process.
 requiring drivers to display their permit in the vehicle. This was accidentally removed from the previous code. It is the current practice, and we're reinstating that language. Using a uniform vehicle crash report, that was one of the topics we discussed with the memo earlier today.
 That's going to help us collect that information in a digital format online that allows us to run analytics rather than the old-fashioned way we would take a paper copy that was sent to us, have to scan it. And if we wanted to run any analytics on that information, we'd have to re-enter that information into a database. So this allows us to do that seamlessly.
 Using a company-approved device to calculate fares and process payments. Just to make sure that every vehicle that processes payments, they need to use a system approved by their company. And if they're doing fare calculation, it's in a taxi or a T&C. They have to use a system that is approved by their company. We want to make sure that these systems are PCI compliant. Clarifying the length of a company permit.
 It's just to make sure that everybody understands that a permit can be issued up to one year. And a federal and state out-of-service order, the Fed and the state have the ability to issue out-of-service orders to companies that they do not want operating anywhere within the state or in the country if it was issued by the federal government. We wanted to just mimic that existing language that the state has and the federal has at their level.
 And finally, clarifying which documents must be present in the field when our folks are going out there doing their field audit. There's been some confusion on what documents do I need to have with me. We just wanted to make sure that was very clear in code.
 Now I'd like to talk about some of the more exciting future developments. PDX Wave is just the beginning. Next, we want to integrate this amazing service in a mobile application. We are meeting with our partners at TriMet, GridWorks, Ride Connection to explore ways that we can all work together to address the accessible transportation issues we face today and explore the opportunities we expect to see tomorrow.
 Driver training is only required once a year. In the future, we aspire to offer ongoing training opportunities on topics such as customer service, driver safety, and how to identify potential victims of human trafficking and what to do. The trainings will be made available through a new learning management system designed to alert drivers when new required trainings are available. We believe this brings value to our drivers and the community that they serve. Thank you.
 As Commissioner Saltzman mentioned earlier, we have two resolutions being introduced today. The first is to study traffic congestion in Portland. The transportation system is an essential to the well-being and prosperity of the city. PBOT needs to further study changes in the traffic congestion and whether the city transportation goals are being met. While the study will focus on overall impacts,
 It will place an emphasis on a better understanding to the relative impacts to taxis and TNC service. The second resolution is to study liability insurance, accidental death and dismemberment coverage, and personal injury protection. The resolution also directs PBOT to study best practices and develop a proposal for a driver regulatory board.
 And that concludes our presentation and our suggested modifications to the code. We have some guest speakers I know that are coming up, but I will be in the audience to answer any questions you may have. Commissioner Fritz. Regarding the 50-cent surcharge, my recollection was that that was intended to pay for accessible rides.
 So I'm wondering what's the balance in that fund and why it's being used for things like able-bodied or people who don't need an accessible ride getting a ride home on New Year's Eve. So we don't have the exact balance of the fund right now, but we do intend to use the 50 cent surcharge to fund the accessible service program.
 We don't know exactly how much that's going to cost us. We estimate about $600,000 the first year. The Safe Ride Home Program, is that what you're referencing, Commissioner, the cost? Using it for anything other than accessible rides. Safe – I'm sorry. If I could, Ken, correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure that when we passed the ordinance, it was dedicated to the Private for Hire program itself. There wasn't a restriction only for – I was the one that offered the amendment. It was –
 to make sure we had adequate funds to enforce the new regulations on everybody. Okay. Mr. Member. Okay, thank you. Commissioner Fisch. Commissioner Bailey. Yeah, I have a couple questions for staff, and then a couple questions that I want to ask of staff and taxi representatives. Can you tell me how cab companies and cab drivers were involved in the process of developing this policy? Sure.
 Which particular? I'm sorry, these items before us. All the items that you see before you today were part of the advisory committee discussion. We introduced the items to the advisory committee on a follow-up meeting. The advisory committee will listen to public comment.
 drivers can stand up and obviously make comment, and then the advisory committee would then vote rather to make that recommendation to push that item forward. And we did have cab drivers on the committee? We do, yes. We have a cab driver that's on the committee and a taxi company owner or management representative on the committee as well. Okay. We're hearing from cab companies that they felt somewhat excluded from the process and...
 I realize that these items are focusing on TNCs, but TNCs obviously impact the cab industry. So the main way for them to have their voices heard at this point is to give public testimony. Okay.
 Is that what I'm hearing? No, no, absolutely not. At the committee, everybody that wants to speak is welcome to speak. We take public comment on, like I said, on items that were introduced the prior month. The meeting minutes go out on the Internet where they're accessible for everyone to review. If people wanted to send public comment in, we would accept that as well. Okay.
 And again, we have taxi industry representatives on the committee, but no one's excluded from at least having an opportunity to voice their opinion. Okay. When these policies were first developed, obviously I was not on city council and I wasn't actively engaged in the conversation, although I was certainly following it. One of the things that was, I guess, confusing and troubling to me is that
 We didn't really achieve parity between taxi drivers and TNCs, or cab companies and TNCs. And it seems to continue to be the case that the standards vary for each group. And I'm going to ask this of the taxi representatives, but if anyone up here can go over how our
 explain why I would appreciate that. So, go ahead. You can follow up, but when we passed the regulations several years ago, there was a very intentional effort to level the playing field and make it very equal between the two parties. So the regulations applied equally between CAPs and TNCs.
 Now that we've done this for a little bit, we are recognizing that there are some instances in which it doesn't make sense to treat TNCs and taxi cabs in the same way. And one great example that Mark brought up in his testimony is the ride fee. So cabs don't have the same technology or same resources to collect the 50-cent ride fee, and it's been overly burdensome.
 on their drivers and on the owners of the company. So we have a proposal that we put forth to exclude them from the ride fee and have them go back to just paying the permit charges that they did before the regulations went into effect. Okay.
 Yeah, just to follow up on that a little bit, Commissioner, we took great efforts, and Council really took the lead on that. Again, I think Leah used the right words, level the playing field as much as possible. And throughout the regulations, you'll see we try to treat taxis and TNCs in a regulatory fashion as close as possible. It isn't a perfect match.
 I'll tell you, taxi light, for instance. TNCs don't have to have a taxi light. Taxis do. Taxi meters. Taxis have to have a taxi meter. TNCs don't because they have the app. So it's not a perfect match in every situation or every case.
 but how the drivers are permitted or certified, how the vehicles are inspected, and the standards by which they're inspected. We even removed requiring dedicated color schemes to vehicles. I think that was Commissioner Fish's motion that they can have a varied color scheme, where you used to have to have one color for a company. It had to be approved by PBOT, and we opened that up. So I think there's been a concerted effort to remove barriers, not add barriers.
 Okay. Thanks. Commissioner Fish. Thank you. I have a number of questions, and I want to just make sure that I have the baseline information as we go forward on this. Director Treat, today there are how many TNC drivers in Portland? Yes.
 So we can tell you there are more than 10,000, and I'm not trying to be too vague about this, but there are duplicates out there because there will be a Lyft and an Uber driver, and so we have to redact that. There's many drivers that aren't currently active, and so they may be –
 a certified driver, but they're not actively engaging in the activity. And then lastly, we have non-disclosure agreements with the company that we can't disclose a specific number. And that agreement has even been tested in circuit court in this county. And so it's backed by a court order. So more than 10,000? More than 10,000. Okay. Okay.
 I'm pleased to hear that you've tightened the code to make future gray ball type violations unambiguously a violation of the code. What's your proposed penalty for such violations? I believe the maximum penalty would be the sanction for that violation with possibility of being revoked.
 Have the regulatory agreement revoked? Correct. Okay. Is it subject to the same, like, the three-tier, like, strike one, it's 500, strike two, it's 1,000? Well, we did, but we started it at the maximum level, and for that particular line item, you're subject to suspension and revocation. Okay. I think I should know this, but I'm going to ask it anyway. With respect to the background checks you're going to do, are you planning to go back in time, or is this prospective? Okay.
 Just going forward. Going forward. And do you have the resources to meet the demand? We are preparing for that if council chooses to approve that modification, yes. And would you pay for that? What would be the source of funds to pay for that additional capacity? So those additional positions would be funded by the surcharge and the permit fees that we currently collect. Okay.
 On the reference you made earlier to permits being displayed on the window, I've observed from time to time permits displayed on tinted windows, which make them effectively illegible. Does the code address that?
 Not illegible, unreadable. Well, now, just to be clear, this modification is about the driver displaying their picture photograph permit inside the vehicle. I guess I'm talking about the amendment that Dan brought a few years ago to require that the permit number be –
 visible on the car. Do we address the question of whether the tinted glass prevents you from actually seeing it? I mean, very directly, no. I mean, the code doesn't talk about it. You're talking about TNC permits in the front and the rear of the vehicle. And if they have deeply tinted windows, you may not see it. You're indeed correct. Can we just park that somewhere as something to come back to? I think it's a –
 I think it's a reasonable issue for us to address. Do we have good data on the average number of passengers per trip? Do we track that or just track trips? We just track trips. Yes.
 With respect to the larger enterprise here about congestion and climate action and other things, will we at some point have the capacity to track the number of passengers? The companies are certainly doing it themselves, so the capacity just would exist in requiring it as part of the data sharing agreement.
 Because if, say, you and I get in a Lyft together, you pay an additional charge for every additional rider, so that's into the app. Our best chance at that is both Uber and Lyft, Lyft Line and Uber Pool, the ride, you know, double ride sharing. You know, they pick up people along the line. It's like a carpool experience.
 Those are our best opportunities to start gathering that kind of data because we know there's going to be multiple customers in the car. But you hit on something that we have talked a lot about, about being able to collect data on how many passengers in the car, and we're very interested in collecting that information. And perhaps it will lead to some consideration of ways of creating incentives for people to –
 Double up. That's exactly why we've been talking about it. If we really truly want to get people sharing cars and rides and stuff, that's something that we're very interested in. Thank you. And, Director Treat, with respect to my amendment that I've offered to Item 519,
 which I gave you a copy of. Would it be your intent to confer with each council office as you go forward with the next phase of the study here in terms of the composition, who you talk to, the composition of any committee, and the scope of the work? Well, I'm certainly interested in hearing everybody's perspectives around the council. I will take my commissioner's lead on how that should be structured.
 Okay. If I have to make the amendment clearer, I'll do so, because the intent is to engage the council in this conversation and to facilitate, because six months is a fairly tight time frame.
 If this passes, I'm sorry, it clearly states that we'll be working with the council offices, so we absolutely will do that. That's what I just wanted to clarify. And the reason, I just wanted to be clear, the reason that we're proposing to strike best practices is that we're not sure there are any best practices out there to study. So since it may be that this is fairly unique, we didn't want to narrow the focus to best practices. We wanted to...
 expand the potential scope of your inquiry to something beyond that, because I'm not sure there is a model that we can point to. So I think we're going to be a national leader in this regard. So thank you. Commissioner Fritz. How many business licenses have been taken out by TNC drivers?
 We'll have to get back to you, but it should equal the number of drivers. We'll have to get back to you on that one. I'd be really interested to know that. And I think that is part of your check, right, that they do have a business license? Correct. Okay. Probably you might need to look into this too. How have taxes that have been gathered from taxi companies changed since TNCs came in? Are we getting more of the same or less? Yes.
 Commissioner, I don't think... I'm sorry. For the ride fee or the... I thought I heard you say taxes. For the taxis. Because the concern is that because so many TNC drivers are going to be making less than $50,000, so they're not required to pay business taxes, that's taking taxes away from the taxi business, which then reduces the city's coffers. So I'd like to know where I'll hold it then, please. We'll have to follow up. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. Thank you.
 Okay. If there's no further questions, then we'll invite up our first panel, which is Nicole Cherone from the Office of Equity and Human Rights and Michelle Graham with Travel Portland. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity for Travel Portland to share industry perspective on the customer experience of the city's private-for-hire transportation program.
 I'm Michelle Graham, Vice President of Services for Travel Portland. In my role, my team directly supports the convention meeting planner and delegate needs of all citywide conventions that select Portland for their programs. Thank you.
 We are here today because we have been engaged in the private-for-hire transportation process as an industry representative, consumer demand generator of private-for-hire services, and a proponent of fair regulations that provide appropriate market flexibility, protections to public safety, and adaptability to changing consumer expectations. Thank you.
 Prior to the changes in the Private for Hire Transportation Program, allowing more competition into the marketplace to meet demand, Portland was not competitive with other cities in hosting citywide conventions. When planners wanted to host off-site events and or delegates wanted to spread their dollars into neighborhood districts outside of the downtown core area.
 Today, we see a significant shift in customer feedback in this area based on the success of the program and the inclusion of the tourism industry in the regulatory conversations, serving as a tourism stakeholder represented on the Private for Hire Transportation Advisory Committee. We share in the past that visitors and other consumers of the Private for Hire Transportation have a time-relevant expectation that the transportation service they are asking for will be reliable, consistent, and safe.
 Thus, we support the revised program purpose and provisions as noted in Section 16.40. The largest issue prior to the new program changes was the lack of consistent metrics to assess demand, performance, reliability, and needs for all riders. The new regulatory code changes created a more efficient and adaptable framework for the City of Portland, Portland residents, as well as our visitors.
 What we have seen is that increased competition and better data metrics has forced all providers to up their game and improve the writing experience for all users. Since the program has been put in place with data metrics to track demand, the visitor industry noticed a significant drop in complaints from visitors and citywide convention planners because more options in the marketplace for private for hire transportation services were available.
 The changes benefited visitors but also local residents, and overall ridership increased significantly to make Portland more competitive in this space. The visitors industry is in support of these regulatory changes and believe that new rules create a more efficient and adaptable framework for the City of Portland, Portland residents, as well as our visitors. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So I'm here to talk about the WAVE program, but I do want to remind, especially the folks that weren't here when we actually adopted all of this, that one of the things that we did when we wrote these regulations were that we said that any company providing transportation service in the city of Portland would have to comply with ADA Title III, which is the provision in the law that covers public businesses, right? So I think...
 We're one of the only cities that have actually pushed this. And why that's important is it's not just about providing the wave transportation, which we're very excited about, and we think we have a really innovative program. It also means that there's a mechanism for people who use service animals to not be excluded from getting a ride, which is something that has happened in the past.
 The WAVE program is a pretty unique program that we created because we knew from before this existed, or before the TNCs arrived, that people who needed wheelchair service were waiting sometimes 45 minutes to an hour to get a ride.
 And there's lots of reasons for that. Part of it is a lot of the medical transport companies or Medicaid rides didn't have enough vehicles, and so they would contract with taxis. And then there just wasn't a vehicle for someone who, I don't know, worked for the city of Portland and needed to get to a work meeting. So we noticed that stuff like that was happening.
 So when the TNCs arrived, it became an opportunity for us to create regulations that would really create some parity for people with disabilities, but specifically for people who use wheelchairs. And so the idea of using a portion of the surcharge to fund this WAVE program was created. And the big piece of that program is that we didn't want the regulation to be punitive,
 We wanted it to be incentivized. And so we basically said we realize that providing wheelchair-accessible transportation costs a lot more money than providing transportation for an able-bodied person. So we're going to actually give you $15 back for every ride you do to offset the cost of the fact that your vehicle is more expensive, the fact that gas is more expensive, the fact that you can't give as many rides because when you load up a wheelchair, it takes more time.
 And so it's really exciting. We're still at the infancy of it. We're not sure what those numbers are going to be. I have heard antidotally from people in the community that they're really happy with the level of service they're getting, that for the most part people are getting rides within 20 minutes. And, yes, our standard is 30, but we do think we can do better than that.
 The dispatch system, which will be launching in the summer, will really kind of streamline everything because it will be a central point of contact that anyone can call to set up the ride. They will have the ability to say what type of vehicle they want because right now, all we mandate is that every company has to provide the service. We don't tell them how they have to do it.
 aside from safety regulations. So you have some people using like a short bus, we call them, or a minivan. And so we do think that people should have the ability to say what kind of vehicle they want to ride in, what company they want to use. Maybe they're very loyal to Rose City. So they can call the dispatch system and say, I want Rose City. That's who I want to bring. Or they can say, hey, who's the closest vehicle?
 vehicle to me, I need to be on the road in 20 minutes. So we really think we're doing something innovative, and we think we're doing something that will be really effective. Thank you. Sounds great. Thank you both. And our next panel is representatives of Uber and Lyft, I believe. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 So thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for the opportunity to speak to you today. My name is Alejandro Ochoza, Uber's general manager here in the Pacific Northwest. I started in this position in December as a part of the new leadership team under our new CEO, Dara. I was born and raised in Mexico City and came to the Pacific Northwest after helping launch Uber in many cities across Mexico.
 I took on this new role for the same reasons I enthusiastically helped Uber launch in my home country. The opportunity to work with cities to improve transportation and mobility options available to all communities. Two months ago, in meetings with most of you and in a public letter, I outlined my responsibility to help write the next chapter of Uber in Portland and implement a vision and expectation set by our new CEO. I acknowledge that we have made missteps here and made commitments for how we will conduct ourselves moving forward.
 I'm here today to reaffirm those commitments and our pledge to be a long-term player, long-term partner in working with you to further improve access to reliable, affordable, and safe transportation options for every neighborhood in Portland. Now and in the future, we will conduct our business here with integrity, humility, and a passion for improving the community.
 We are proud of how we have grown to provide flexible work opportunities to more than 7,000 rideshare drivers, who serve nearly 350,000 riders every month in and around Portland. And we are extremely proud to have helped improve transportation access and equity. In fact, we have seen the fastest ridership growth in neighborhoods with historically limited transportation options.
 We will continue to lean into partnerships with the Portland Bureau of Transportation, public agencies, and community organizations to improve urban mobility for all.
 We are proud to be working with organizations like TriMet to promote mass transit by being a first and last mile partner, working with Forth PGE to promote adoption of electric vehicles, and supporting nonprofit organizations that promote equity and economic opportunity for historically underserved communities. Organizations like Street Roots, Community Warehouse, Dress for Success, Youth Progress, Zenger Farm, Basic Rights Oregon.
 And we are working hard to be better listeners to all stakeholders, including riders, drivers, community partners, and you, to understand how we can improve and do a better job.
 In this spirit, I will end by saying that we look forward to closely working with the Portland Bureau of Transportation, Mayor Wheeler, and every one of your offices to make the proposals you have before you today a success for riders, drivers, and the whole city. While we know that much of the specifics will be developed in the future, we are aligned with your priorities of listening to the concerns of drivers and promoting public driver and rider safety.
 Thank you so much. I'm happy to answer questions. I wanted to invite my colleague, John Isaacs, Uber's public affairs manager, to join me and help answering questions. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, my name is Rena Davis, and I am a senior public policy manager for Lyft. I appreciate the opportunity to offer comments on the matters in front of you today.
 Lyft was the first company to establish peer-to-peer on-demand ride sharing, which is now what the world knows as TNCs. Lyft was created to provide the world's best transportation, and every week we connect millions of people with efficient, affordable, and safe rides. We want to make it easier for people to offer their neighbors a ride and to help people carpool more efficiently.
 Lyft's number one priority is the safety of its community of drivers and passengers. Drivers are extensively pre-screened and must pass a thorough background check, driver record review, and comprehensive vehicle inspection. What really distinguishes Lyft from traditional for hire services is how we utilize technology to ensure a safe riding experience.
 Every Lyft ride is tracked via GPS. And when a rider is matched with a driver via Lyft, the driver and rider receive pictures of each other, and there is also a user rating for both rider and driver. Lyft's user rating systems allow a rider to provide instant feedback on safety, navigation, overall ride experience. Drivers are also able to flag and to rate riders and flag abusive or dangerous conditions.
 We are proud that Lyft is more than just a ride-sharing application. We are bringing Oregon communities together through the medium of ride-sharing. Lyft is allowing residents across the state of Oregon the opportunity to earn flexible supplemental income by using their private vehicle to ride-share with their neighbors. More than 80% of Lyft drivers drive less than 15 hours a week. They're casual drivers who don't fall into the traditional livery or taxi framework.
 The Lyft community is made up of retirees, single parents, graduate students, folks trying to get around, and families just trying to make ends meet. We recently reviewed data on driver earnings, and for the first time in our industry we disclosed median earnings per hour for drivers across the country. We found that it was right around $18.83 per hour, and what we're seeing here in Portland is consistent with that. That's about $5 more than the current Portland minimum wage.
 Beyond providing economic opportunity, we believe in being contributing members of the Portland community. We have partnered with the Gateway Center, for example, to provide rides to their clients and ensure that transportation is not a barrier in access to services. We've also worked with PBOT, too,
 provide safe rides during time when alcohol consumption is high. A recent study showed that when ride-sharing enters the market, it reduced the fatal accident rate by 6%, the fatal nighttime crashes declined by 18%, and reduced DUIs on average by 51.3% per year.
 Eliminating drivers driving under the influence is a priority that LIFT shares with the state of Oregon and the city of Portland. We are committed to Portland and have also put down roots here. We recently launched a Portland hub where we have a full-time staff that works with the local community and serves drivers who need support on a face-to-face basis.
 We enjoy serving Portland and look forward to continued partnership as you imagine the future of this city. Lyft is committed to a sustainable approach to transportation, and we envision a future where personal vehicle ownership is eliminated or dramatically reduced in our urban cores. What will Portland look like in 5, 10, 15 years, and how many parking garages can be converted into open space and reclaimed for public use?
 How can we design infrastructure around people and not cars? We look forward to being part of those conversations. With regard to some of the matters that are before you today, over the last several months, our public policy, compliance, and legal teams have worked extensively with PBOT to answer questions and think through how regulations can be both effective and efficient.
 We are currently discussing how to work together so that background checks, audits, and compliance measures help PBOT staff and directors seamlessly regulate the TNC industry. We appreciate their openness and look forward to continuing our work together. We would like to briefly bring up a few of the measures before you today with regard to user data, paper record keeping, and the congestion study. As outlined, the current requirements require the exact pinpoint location of pickup and drop-offs
 And that is of concern to us. We believe passenger data should be more anonymized and the need for exact location does not permit that flexibility. Based on our experience working across North America, we believe that there are other ways to ensure that the city receives the information that it needs for city planning and logistical purposes without disclosing such detailed information on user data. We're committed to continuing work and figuring out how that can be done.
 TNC drivers are currently required to carry paper copies of their various registration documents, and we 100% agree that drivers should be able to produce the required documentation to regulators. And to aid this process and provide an extra layer of security, we believe that TNC should be allowed to upload the documents directly into the TNC app.
 And this allows drivers to simply open up their app and have regulators scroll through and assess the documents and ensure that they are in compliance. We believe that Oregon currently actually permits drivers to have digitized copies of their insurance card. And we don't believe that TNC drivers should lose that privilege simply because they're choosing to earn extra income on our platforms. Okay.
 Lastly, we applaud the city's forward thinking around congestion and city planning. Lyft is committed to working with Portland to reduce the number of personal vehicles on the road and think creatively about regional transportation planning in a multimodal future.
 We actively pursue partnerships to solve for first and last mile commuting. We believe that congestion studies are part of the process and urge that any studies be approached holistically and include all vehicles on the road for personal, TNC, and commercial use. We believe that this will provide the clearest picture into current traffic conditions and how to best solve for future transportation challenges.
 I'd also just like to make one clarifying point with respect to previous testimony on per ride fees. The only rides where we collect per ride fees from multiple users are on our shared rides. For Lyft Classic, for the Premier, for the Lyft Plus, for the larger vehicles, there's just one per ride fee collected per trip.
 Thank you again for the opportunity to provide testimony, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. That was a lot of information for both of you. You mentioned insurance for the drivers. What's being done so that drivers are not at risk of losing their personal policy when they're driving for your companies?
 So in terms of the way that we approach insurance, there's a national insurance compromise that was agreed to by the TNCs, by the insurance providers. And those requirements are outlined within that compromise. And that's what our internal insurance policy is based on.
 So under that current policy, which is in place in every area where we operate ride-sharing in the country, we found that it's been sufficient in terms of covering drivers for incidents with regard to their personal insurance.
 they're permitted to have TNCs on those insurance policies so long as they work with their insurance policy. I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with that. I mean, I've heard about it, but I don't know what's in it. So could you explain what is in this compromise and how it provides coverage for the driver? Sure.
 So it's broken down into three periods. So period one, period two, and period three. Period one is when a driver has the app on and they're waiting for a ping to let them know that there's a ride and they're connected with someone. Period two is when they're actively going to a ride. They've already connected with a person and are traveling to pick them up. Period three is when that ride starts all the way until they get out of the vehicle.
 So during period one, Lyft is a primary insuring party. Individuals, when they are onboarded, also have to provide proof of having insurance, their own personal insurance. So they have that, but we are primary during that period one. Additionally, in period two, that's when our $1 million insurance policy kicks in, and that's in effect for period one, or excuse me, for period two and for period three. Under...
 My understanding before was that if a private insurance, that the private policy says that you're not going to use your vehicle for commercial purposes. So how is that being taken care of, particularly in period one?
 I'm not entirely familiar with the various products that are offered for each insurance provider. I'm sure that they're different. And for drivers, if they are told by their insurance company that they have to abide by certain rules or add varying coverage to maintain their underlying policy, then we would expect that they would comply with that. However,
 A driver's lack of insurance, even in the worst case scenario, is not going to prevent coverage from being provided by Lyft in period one, period two, or period three. To the driver? To the driver in terms of their... If they get into an accident in period one and then their personal insurance doesn't cover them driving commercially, Lyft will then take care of them? Yes. And same for Uber? Mm-hmm.
 And do you check to make sure that they have gotten the riders that they are supposed to get for driving their personal vehicle commercially?
 We check to make sure that they do have insurance, so they have to provide a copy of their insurance. We take note of the expiration date, and if it's getting ready to expire, we will contact the driver. If it's not renewed, then we will off-board them. However, in terms of their relationship with their insurer, that's a contractual relationship that we are not party to, so we would not be able to check into that. My understanding is that most regular insurance policies don't cover commercial driving.
 So why don't you check to make sure that they have the commercial rider? Because we will always cover any incidents that occur. But then they will lose their personal insurance.
 I wouldn't, again, I wouldn't know about the policies that are specific to each insurance provider. Obviously, this is something we'll need to look into in the city. Yeah, and I do believe that the staff at the Portland Bureau of Transportation are going to be doing a deep dive. We've worked extensively with them to provide data, to provide numbers, and had several conversations about
 over the last several months with members of our legal team, with members of our risk assessment team that oversee our insurance. So we've definitely been keeping the lines of communication open, and we'll continue to do so. And have you both provided them with incidents about crashes and insurance payouts? Yes, I believe so. Yes, we have. We've had those conversations and are moving forward as they deepen their study. Thank you. Mayor, I have a question. Commissioner Fish. Thank you both for your testimony.
 So Resolution Number 519, which is sponsored by all five members of council, so that's an important fact, directs PBOT to come up with a proposal for a TNC regulatory body, or some would call it a wage board. That is to be determined. I'd like to ask each of you separately, on behalf of the companies that you here represent, do you support the creation of such a body, starting with Uber? Sure.
 So we do support finding a way to accomplish the goals that you're looking to accomplish with that. So we will happily work with you to try to find an operational process, understanding what those motivations are. So, yes, absolutely, we will work with you guys to try to find what that could look like. And how about Lyft? Lyft.
 I think similarly we support providing drivers with the opportunity to give input. I think that with the current structure where there is a committee where multiple forms of transportation providers are represented, perhaps that could be utilized and expanded. Perhaps there could be another kind of opportunity
 party that's added on top of that or another function or body that would also work towards those goals. So we are also open to having creative conversations around how to accomplish these. Okay, so just to be clear, that's a lot of words. Some questions do lend themselves to yes or no. I have not heard either of you say that you oppose the creation of this new body. Is that fair to say, Uber first?
 Yeah, we do not oppose the creation of a structure that, you know, I think the question is what that could look like, and we want to collaborate with you to try to find what's going to be most effective for all players. Okay, very good. And Lyft? I think we'd prefer to see the existing structure expanded, but are open to having conversations around the direction that council would like to go. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you both. Thank you. I forgot a panel, so I want to apologize to our Private for Hire Advisory Board members, but they're next. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Me? My name is Mike Greenfield, and I'm the Chair of the Advisory Board, and my position is the writing public. I have some remarks prepared for you, and then we have some other folks here. Thank you.
 The arrival in Portland of Uber and Lyft changed the landscape for taxi companies and platform companies, drivers, specialized transportation companies, passengers, restaurants, hotels, and other companies that rely on these services. The advisory committee with designated membership for owners, drivers, riders, has worked closely with Mark Williams and his staff,
 Mark and his folks have done a professional and effective job for Portland. While there are differences of opinion, members of the committee have worked together effectively and collaboratively. Our deliberations have welcomed public input, and our processes have been civil. Thank you very much for the opportunity to serve on the board.
 Thank you, sir. Sure. My name is Andrea Lenz. I represent a very different part of the advisory board, but I like to say it's still important. So it's been very interesting seeing the TNCs and Uber and the taxi companies, or TNCs, that is Uber and Lyft, with the taxi companies. But it also has been very informative for me to get information.
 my Giant Bikes regulations dialed in. We are a very unique thing, and we don't have direct competition with another industry, but it's been very...
 Very fun to get it down on paper, to have black and white where we are such a weird industry. So I'm just thankful for the opportunity to sit on that committee and be able to have regulations that pertain to my smaller industry that still allows us to operate within the city street. So, yeah, that's it.
 All I got. Thank you. So do you represent pedicabs in general? I represent pedal-powered transportation, so pedicabs as well as the quadricycles, which we finally got into code to have a specific. I mean, we could put them in as brew cycles, but I think quadricycles was a little bit more formal to have. So, yes, pedicabs and quadricycles. Good. Thank you. Yeah, thank you.
 Thank you, Council. Steve Hex, GM of Broadway Cab, and I'm also vice chairman. And I really don't have anything new to add. I agree with Mike. I would like to just throw in some thanks. You know, Mark has been at every meeting of our committee, and I know that because I've been at every meeting. So he's really worked hard here. And also, even though we've never met, Dan, your staff was available to me, Grum and Tia, so I thank you for that. And I'm just here if there are any questions I could help with.
 Okay, well, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fish has some invited guests as well. Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for the courtesy of allowing me to invite a panel, and I'd like to invite the following three individuals to come forward. Tom Chamberlain, Oregon AFL-CIO President, Rebecca Smith, Director of Work Structures at the National Employment Law Project, and Owen Christofferson, who is a TNC driver.
 Ms. Smith, I think you traveled the farthest to be here, so thank you for that. Only from Seattle. Who would like to go first? I'd like to go first. Okay. Tom? Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Tom Chamberlain. I am the president of the Oregon AFL-CIO, representing almost a third of a million members. I have lived and worked in this city most of my life.
 There are many things I love about Portland, but what makes Portland unique, what sets us apart from other major cities, is our city's ability to take on difficult issues and find innovative solutions. Living wage ordinances, ban the box, investing in our infrastructure, and most recently, I have watched you grapple with homelessness. And today...
 You're bringing forward three resolutions that takes on the difficult issues of the evolving TNC industry. From your actions as city leaders, it is clear you want a Portland that works for everyone, where we have structures and systems and checks and balances that ensures that workers are not taken advantage of and are provided with livable wages.
 Over the last 30 months, we at the Oregon AFL-CIO have been working with Uber and Lyft drivers and have heard their issues and their problems with the current system. We have a TNC system in our city without checks and balances from the driver's perspective, void of transparency, a system where workers' voices are not heard. The drivers of Transportation Fairness Portland are here today in support of 519 as amended.
 which will help us develop and implement a TNC board where drivers could not only address their grievances, but create a TNC system that is reflective of Portland's core value of livability. By taking this issue head on, Portland once again will be in the forefront of developing systems that have a national implication.
 Today, I am joined by Rebecca Smith, Director of Work Structures Portfolio at the National Employment Law Project, who has done extensive research on the impact of TNCs on our communities.
 The National Employment Law Project, as you may remember, was instrumental in developing Portland's Ban the Box ordinance, giving ex-offenders a better shot at a good job. Again, Portland led the way for the rest of the country. I'm also joined by Owen Christofferson, a driver for Uber and Lyft, who has been an active member of the Transportation Fairness Portland since its inception.
 And we'll talk to the many problems and issues faced by drivers. Unless there are any questions, I will turn this over to Rebecca Smith. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, and thanks for giving me the opportunity to be here today. I'm Rebecca Smith, and I direct the work structures portfolio at the National Employment Law Project. We're based in New York and D.C., but I am a lifelong resident, too, of the Pacific Northwest, so why would I move to New York or D.C.?
 For decades, we've focused on the ways in which various structures of work, subcontracting, outsourcing, franchising, calling workers independent, contractors,
 affects income and wealth inequality, affects the ability of workers to come together and negotiate with their employers, and in some cases perpetuates occupational segregation. And more recently, as Tom said, I've focused my work on the on-demand or gig economy, talking to workers and worker representatives and reading the literature and doing some writing of my own.
 Assuming that projections about the growth of the on-demand economy and technological and automation-related job loss are correct, it's really incumbent on policymakers to do everything we can
 to ensure that the jobs that are generated by the new economy are good jobs, that all communities are served by new technology, and that city-level transportation planners have all the information that they need to plan across all sectors of transportation.
 Portland and most major cities across the U.S. have now had a few years of experience with the transportation network companies and grappling with those implications for workers and consumers and planners. And here are some of the things that we know now that we didn't know years ago.
 More and more, studies are showing that workers are just not making enough money to get by. The most recent study by Lawrence Bichelle of the Economic Policy Institute came out last week and found that Uber drivers earn about $9 per hour. And you'll hear larger numbers about what drivers earn, but once you discount...
 for their driving related expenses, once you discount for the fact that they're paying both the employer and the employee side of Social Security, plus their income taxes, plus some of the other expenses we've talked about today, that's how you get at that number.
 There's an emerging body of work that questions whether racial discrimination is hardwired into the star rating system, but we don't have the data to show us whether that's true or hopefully not true. There's an emerging body of work that shows that TNCs contribute to congestion as passengers migrate from public transportation to private transportation.
 And while TNCs provide some flexibility to drivers, they also use a variety of behavioral nudges to get drivers to drive when and where they want. And that amounts to a de facto scheduling system.
 The companies have at the same time vigorously resisted, on the one hand, treating their workers as employees and paying their taxes and covering them under labor standards, and on the other hand, negotiating with their drivers over terms and conditions of employment.
 TNC drivers, as I'm sure you know, have complained in a variety of forums, have staged strikes, a brief boycott campaign, talking about their campaign, their pay, unilateral changes in pay, unlawful deductions, unfair deactivations, and on and on.
 So while cities like Seattle and New York are also exploring options, I think Portland now has an opportunity to really dig deeper into the impact of TNCs on drivers and on communities. You have deep city knowledge about how the transportation network companies work and the implications of the rise of TNCs. You have broad authority to act.
 And I understand that Portland, like other cities, is grappling with issues around inequality.
 access to technology for all your residents. So that's why we applaud this resolution. In particular, it's focused on developing a new oversight committee that includes drivers' voices, that focuses on things like wage disputes and transparent accountability and equitable dispute resolution. I'm reminded of a saying that comes up sometimes in my house that if drivers are
 not at the table, then they risk being on the menu. And so I really applaud bringing drivers to the table to have a say in what those standards are.
 And finally, TNCs generate and use a broad variety of data. And I applaud your efforts to gather some of that data. In particular, I noticed the zip code level data that showed access throughout Portland. And I understand that it's much more important to have much smaller areas to look at. And that's why the pick up and drop off data. Because as we all know, zip codes are
 are big. Zip code level data covers a lot of different neighborhoods usually. So Portland can be a model for the country in how to create good jobs, equitable transit systems, and in a way that brings together all of the stakeholders. And I urge you to adopt the resolution. Thank you very much. Mr. Christofferson, welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you.
 I'm a Portland State student and I love this city. I started driving for both TNCs in the fall of 2015 and it was a great way to balance work and school. I often have people telling me they wish they'd had this opportunity back when they were in school. I've driven tens of thousands of miles for them, given thousands of rides, worked snowstorms and holidays.
 And I'm before you here today to say that although those of us who drive for TNCs enjoy some of the foremost technological innovations, TNCs have skirted labor protections, many of which have been fought for over decades. And today we have the opportunity to give TNC workers a much needed voice with this board.
 I also come before you all today to speak for the many drivers I've talked to who feel that they will face retaliation from the companies for speaking up, as this has happened in Seattle multiple times.
 We need a voice because we face a perilous work environment. Our earnings are erratic and often fall below minimum wage after driver expenses. And between high insurance deductibles, driver safety, and many other issues, the liability and risks that we assume as drivers is significant. These risks can push us into poverty or homelessness in the event of a catastrophic event such as an accident.
 And a quick word on insurance. Lyft's insurance deductible is $2,500. This is an outrageous figure for low-wage workers, and I personally have known drivers in this insurance system who have had to wait up to nine months and file multiple claims with the Insurance Commission of Oregon just to get their vehicles fixed, just so that they can start earning money again.
 A few months after I started driving, Uber and Lyft cut rates with no warning. We have no guarantee of protections from future rate cuts, so at a moment's notice we could be earning even less. We need a voice because we have no recourse in the event of an unfair deactivation or other grievance we might have with the company. The TNCs have unilateral authority to determine our ability to work and us as drivers have no ability to hold them accountable for their actions.
 We need a voice because as drivers we are exempt from federal labor laws including minimum wage, workers compensation, unemployment insurance and the right to collectively bargain. Because of the extensive driver issues we need a way to hold these companies accountable.
 to protect our earnings, our safety, our liability, and to make sure TNCs work for everyone in Portland. This board will give us that voice. It will allow us as drivers and other members of the community to truly have a seat at the table when it comes to determining what TNC policy will be best for all Portlanders. I strongly encourage you all to support the creation of this board. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I have a question. The deductible is $2,500 even when there's a passenger in the car. Yes.
 Thank you. That's interesting information. Ms. Smith, your testimony was actually very compelling to me. Do you have that electronically? Or could we ask, could I ask you to send it? I did type it up, so I'm happy to send it to you, yes. Electronically, that would be great. And I'll make sure my colleagues get it. So thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. So thank you, everybody, for your patience. Now is public testimony. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? 21. 21.
 21. Good. So three minutes per person. Name for the record. When you see the yellow light come on, that means you have 30 seconds left. When the red light comes on, that means your time is up. Please stop. Do not make me the microphone cop. I don't like doing that. So please, when the red light comes on, that is your cue to finish recording.
 your testimony so that everybody else has their fair shot at it. Commissioner Fritz. May I just clarify, I do have a written version of my amendment, which is to Resolution 519, which I've passed out. It's what I just said at the beginning, but I now have it written out. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner, for that. As is tradition here, if there are elected officials, people with small children, people with special needs,
 please find your way up to the council clerk and she'll get you into the lineup sooner rather than later. First three, please. Are Darren Campbell, Steve Entler, and Noah Ernst, and they'll be followed by Katie Kost, Eileen Brown, and Alan or Adam Hernandez? Yes.
 Very good. Welcome, gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Commissioners, my name is Darren Campbell. I'm the state and local lobbyist for Radio Cab Company. Over the last couple of months, we've met with either you or a staff member in your office to show what battles the taxi industry and drivers are facing. Where we have a long list of requested code changes, I would like to focus on just a couple and submit them into the record. Public safety should be the number one priority that means –
 And that means having the best possible policies in place. Having a background check system that works and is effective is imperative. In 2017, I wrote legislation for the Oregon State Legislature, and during that process, I had the ability to learn a lot about background checks.
 The idea of allowing a company to self-check and then putting drivers into service for 30 days until a city verifies it is not only dangerous, but has been tried by Portland before, and it was decided then that it allowed too much opportunity for the wrong person to get through. We have already seen the Uber background check fail miserably. So we all know allowing the wrong person to be out serving the public in an environment where people are their most vulnerable is a mistake.
 The safety of the community cannot be played with, and because a multibillion-dollar company needs to get drivers faster, it should not be played with.
 I'm submitting a common sense rewrite for the proposed code, one that will get the background checked to a place that makes sense and clears drivers prior to their first interaction with the community. One that requires fingerprint identity checks via live scan, a system that is available in at least 17 locations around the state of Oregon, many of them in Portland, and something that PBOT can have installed in their offices. There's no reason not to do this right now.
 I do want to mention two other items that would have an immediate impact on our ability to compete in a fair marketplace. Putting a cap on the number of vehicles a TNC can have operating at any given time in the app and placing a minimum on fair pricing. I believe these are both issues which would be supported by the taxi industry and drivers, as well as TNC drivers who are looking for better working conditions, as you just heard.
 We can no longer allow the saturation of the marketplace with drivers working for pennies. Drivers are not able to make it out there, and this city should not be standing by allowing this to happen.
 I'm more than happy to answer any questions you may have regarding the items in code. I've just touched on a couple of things I felt were most important. However, we have many issues we would like to address and hope we will have more time to work with staff to accomplish these things, something that we felt we have not been invited to the process nearly as much as some of our competitors. So with that, I will let my colleagues go. Very good. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 Go ahead, sir. My name is Steve Adler. I'm the general manager at Radio Cab. And you mentioned we've met with your staff or yourselves over the past number of months. My primary concern is the insurance aspect. And it was one that was a great concern of yours roughly three years ago. And I happened to bring along something that I wrote quite a long time ago. And...
 has some bullet points. Basically, Uber requires its drivers to have personal auto liability insurance. And then they lowered the bar on the code to reflect that same requirement to the taxi industry, which made no sense whatsoever. Subsequently, it got changed later on, but some of the things didn't make any sense.
 The code has a requirement that Uber and Lyft must warn its drivers that their personal auto insurance might not be valid. Why doesn't the code simply require that drivers provide adequate and valid personal auto insurance? And, yeah.
 The code also requires an acknowledgement from the personal auto insurance company authorizing the part-time commercial driving activities of its insured driver.
 Why doesn't the code address the problem of insurance coverage confusion caused by vehicles providing service for Uber and Lyft at the same time? And why doesn't the code require that the commercial insurance information carried by Uber and Lyft
 be presented at the scene of an accident rather than allowing Uber and Lyft's drivers to show their personal auto insurance information, as now happens most of the time. It's highly unfair, and it passes off a lot of the costs to other personal auto insurance carriers.
 With the City Council meeting in August of 2015, a lot of the commissioners were very concerned about the inadequate coverage provided by Uber at that time. And Commissioner Novick, back then, he went so far as to put Uber on notice that it would have to secure a higher limit of coverage for period one. Never happened.
 As a matter of fact, as I scan through the code, nothing has happened. There is no changes in any of the code revisions that have been presented to you. We've provided a number of items that could be included, but we've been largely ignored by the Bureau. So I brought them to you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Noah Ernst. I'm a superintendent at Radio Cav. And I have deja vu a little bit testifying before you here today because three years I testified twice before the City Council to comment in part upon how we could not get meetings with PBOT. We couldn't get our voice heard. And here I am again today listening, as I did three years ago, to Uber and Lyft talk about how...
 extensively they have worked with the Portland Bureau of Transportation and how open the Portland Bureau of Transportation has been to them. And we have emails going back, Mr. Entler and myself, a year from PBOT promising to meet with us to discuss proposed code changes and those meetings have never happened.
 In fact, when you asked Mr. Williams about what input the taxi industry has, he said, well, they could testify at the advisory committee. That's a big difference between being asked to testify at the advisory committee meeting and having extensive meetings and contacts with PBOT.
 You can tell all you need to know by the fact that Uber and Lyft were invited to testify with no time restrictions, and yet the taxi industry has to run on the clock.
 Additionally, you can tell all the influence the taxi industry has when Mr. Williams told you that the advisory committee either tabled or rejected some of his code changes based on the invite of the taxi representative, but yet he thinks you should do them anyway and they're part of the code changes. We get nothing. I am here to talk to you about the fee structure, one of the things that the advisory committee
 While we do sometimes have said that the 50-cent ride fee was a handout to Uber so that they would not have to pay the per-vehicle fee and the permitting fee, to put those fees on just the taxi industry is inherently unfair. You create a barrier to entry into taxi driving for taxi drivers by forcing them to come up with money up front that they would not have to come up with if they drove for a TNC fee.
 It shifts the burden of paying fees to the drivers from the public who can least afford it. Our company is surviving. Our drivers are dying. They are going broke, and they are leaving the industry. And if you are not going to do anything to protect the income of the drivers, such as reducing the number of vehicles or setting minimum rates, at least don't create a barrier to entry and additional fees on them.
 I also would ask the council to reject the changes related to driver training. While it makes sense for PBOT to request particular training before issuing or renewing a permit, putting out training things willy-nilly any time during the year and threatening to revoke people's livelihoods if they don't comply is inherently unfair. And it creates, again, additional burdens on the drivers. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you.
 Next three, please. Next three are Katie Kost, Eileen Brown, and Aiden, maybe, Hernandez. Good afternoon. Would you like to start? Sure. My name is Aileen Brown. I am the TNC driver representative on the Private for Hire Advisory Committee. So obviously I speak to a lot of drivers. It's interesting.
 And I have since 2014 when we first came to Portland. I mostly drive for Uber. I started driving because I was stuck on a street corner at 4 o'clock in the morning waiting for a taxi. Not the taxi's fault, they were just overwhelmed. Today I drive in my spare time. I run a warehouse that employs contract drivers. I've given her a handout I'd like you to take a look at if you don't mind. I tried to speak to Commissioner Fish about it yesterday on the radio.
 I understand your concerns about a driver board. I don't think that in the community you realize how many contract drivers are on the road every single day doing thousands of different chores. Every name on that, and that is just a minuscule list compared to what's actually out there.
 That many companies are using contract drivers every day to provide goods and services around this community. But there's no concern for them. We're only having this conversation about TNC drivers. I'm not sure why that is. But I know in my industry, who employs some of those people, we don't need a driver board. We need better conversations with our drivers.
 The companies we're contracted with. I've had several problems with Uber over the years. I went right to Uber and had my problem solved. I don't know that spending, especially ride fee money on...
 a board is going to solve any of those problems. And I don't need, no offense to the AFL-CIO, I don't need them to speak for me. I'm capable of speaking myself. Just like you, I'm sure all of you are, don't have a board to address your concerns with your employers. I don't think that's a necessary thing to spend the right fee money on. I would rather see it go to accessibility for WAVE. My personal story, being stuck on that street corner and getting the opportunity to drive in Portland,
 Today, I mostly drive at night because I feel that driving people who are intoxicated or impaired is a great reward to me. And in the very beginning of this, the people that got in my car would say, you know, if it wasn't for you, we would have pushed the envelope. We've driven drunk. We would drive drunk. We might not go out. We might not spend any money in the community. Today, I never hear that. Today, so many people would shame their friends if they ever even thought of doing something like that.
 I feel good about what I'm doing in this community and how many people we've helped keep the drunk driving rates down, safe, reliable rides. I think let's take that money and spend it for something a little more useful than trying to have communication that's not really necessary. We should be communicating with Uber and Lyft.
 Thank you. Can I, Mayor, just if I could? Sure. We were on the radio together. Yes, we were. Today you've confirmed what I thought yesterday, which is you're a terrific advocate for your point of view. And I appreciate your comments yesterday, and I appreciate seeing you live today. Ditto. And I thank you for this list. This is not the place to air the argument, but I would just say –
 that where there may be the heart of the disagreement we may have is that
 In our community, we have people that we acknowledge are clearly employees. I made that comment yesterday about the host of the show, that he's clearly an employee, and then we sort of review during the downtime all the recourse he has to administrative agencies, to legal process, to all kinds of things, because as an employee, he has a whole host of protections. And contract employees, and contract employees generally understand what the rules are,
 What has struck me, the more I've learned about this, is that TNC drivers essentially are in limbo. Depending on who you ask, and in the state of Oregon it would depend on whether you ask the labor commissioner, the legislature, or a court, there is a wide range of opinions about whether they are actually employees or independent contractors. Because that status is therefore unclear –
 I'm persuaded that, at least on a transitional basis, we should have a place, a forum, a venue where people can be heard because it's not entirely clear that they have any other place to go. I'm not here to score points with you because I think you're terrific. You were terrific on the radio. You're even better live. But that is one of the concerns I have.
 is that I believe uniquely this category of workers falls between the cracks. And your rights should not depend on who you go ask, whether you're an employer or an independent contractor, but no one has decided that question. And so as long as they're in legal limbo, I think there should be a place to go to get help.
 justice, and that's why I'm persuaded a wage board is useful. I think myself and all the drivers I speak to don't feel like that. We do feel like independent contractors, and we're comfortable with that role. And the drivers that we employ at my company, like Umpqua Bank, uses independent contractor drivers to move their mail around, is a perfect example, or OHSU for specimens. Those are all independent contractors, and they're all very happy with the way things are going. I love driving Uber and Lyft, and I love working in that other field that also employs contract drivers, and I've never felt the need that I –
 had to go to a border here's here's the good news if we do establish the board
 and we set up a mechanism, we will not compel you to come before us. You are, in fact, we won't have the capacity to deal with over 10,000 complaints. So it's nice to know that someone is satisfied. But we've heard from a lot of people that feel like they'd like to have a voice, and this is maybe an imperfect solution, but it is an option. But hats off to you for your advocacy. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Katie Coast, and I was born and raised right here in Gresham. And I've been working in downtown Portland for the last 10 years doing hotel accounting. About two and a half years ago, my best friend who lives in New York finally set her wedding date.
 Well, I needed to raise some quick cash to get the money to fly out there. So I went to Facebook and asked, how can I quickly earn about $1,000 in order to cover for the expenses? My friend Max said, I think you'd be a great Uber driver. You're personable, you love your city, and you know it quite well. So I signed up. Within a month, I had enough to travel out to go to the wedding.
 And so I'm here today in order just to voice how I haven't had any of the issues that I've heard about. I am here because I love driving for Uber. About a month and a half after starting driving for Uber, my husband lost his job. And so I was like, all right, I'll step up my game. I signed up for Lyft, and things have been running smoothly ever since then. So I drive for both companies to this day.
 After about six or eight months of driving for both companies, the radio in my car went out. So I went in to trade in my car and get a new one. I decided to go with a fully electric option. So now not only am I driving part-time for Lyft and Uber while still maintaining my hotel accounting job, I drive a fully electric vehicle with zero emissions. Wow.
 So I am very, very happy and proud to be an Uber EV advocate. I love talking about the electric vehicle aspect of it, and the fact that I have none of those additional charges and very low maintenance means more money in my pocket for every trip that I do. Thank you. Appreciate your being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Adan Hernandez. I drive for both Uber and Lyft, and I'm grateful that I'm able to do so because I lost my job a year ago.
 and this has enabled me to support my family. So I'm grateful that been said. There are some things that I feel that we do need where we can be heard, mainly because the things that there's... I don't feel that there is a place that, unless we're talking about right now, the representative back there that can actually hear and make a difference. That's how I feel for both companies. But the bottom line is that
 We don't make $18 an hour. I think it's more close to $15 an hour. If we were making it to go to a wedding, and I'm going to use your example because it's the same clothes as mine, if I'm making it just to get ahead and pay my debt and work –
 very hard to do so, then it's okay because I will be able to work very hard up to 12 hours a day and make the money that I need to pay my debt. But it happens that when you lose your job and you have to support your family, you need more of a steady income. You cannot be working 12 hours a day indefinitely, seven days a week or six days a week, to be able to survive. That's not reasonable.
 And the fact that we have to do so and we're recommended to do so, it's just not reasonable. Human beings are not supposed to be sitting in a car for 10 to 12 hours a day just to make what in reality to me, after doing all the accounting, is about $7.50 to $8 an hour net. And this is a math that can be easily done by humans.
 Both companies. So I wish there was a place that I could go and talk to the people that can make a difference, that can hear me, and I wouldn't be here. I would not be here. And the rest of the drivers are hurting because they don't make enough money making a big effort and working a whole bunch of hours.
 Commissioner Fisher asked a question and it was very interesting to hear that the need to actually have how many people actually take the ride. Commissioner, I can guarantee you that unless it's a shared ride, which accounts for only like maybe less than 5% of the rides in the entire city, including the airport,
 The companies don't know how many people. We can have four people. We can have three. We can have two or one. Mostly, 95%, I would say, just one person in the car because it's cheaper to ride our cars than to take a MAX for four people going from one bar to the other downtown Portland. And that is a fact. So they share the ride. That's the only share that they do. Young people, they're having fun. Thank you.
 Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Thank you. The next three are John Orr, Kat Entler, and Gail Larson, and they'll be followed by Scott Burge, Amanda Rain, and Dayalo Bennett.
 Good afternoon. Would you like to start for us, please? Thank you. Hello. My name's Gail Larson. I'm a driver for Uber. I appreciate the time to share. I kind of wanted to just mention something from the actual end customer perspective. I gave a ride to an elderly gentleman last month, picked him up at Fred Meyer, was taking him to a residence. And during the course of the ride, he commented...
 quite enthusiastically how pro-Uber he was, that it was such a great service. He had lost his license four months earlier due to his advancing age. And he was so thankful for a service that was easy to use and that he could afford.
 He said, you show up in five or ten minutes. And unlike previous transportation services he had used in the past, it was very dependable for him. When I dropped him off at the residence, he brought a tear to my eye because he said...
 Don't want to get emotional here. He said, my wife of 67 years is in this adult care facility. She's been here for six years bedridden. And the best part of every day is when I get to come here and kiss her and hug her. So, of course...
 brought a tear to my eye, but after the fact, I felt so good when I left that rider because I knew that he had a service that enabled him to see his wife of 67 years every day. So I wanted to share that with you and that as you make all these decisions and regulations and such, and you've heard from drivers and taxi companies and the representatives from Uber and Lyft,
 that you also think about the end user because I agree with the woman who talked about drunk drivers I have three adult daughters who regularly use rideshare so they can go out on the town have a cocktail and not have to worry I experience it with the people that I pick up so I think it greatly benefits society to have that kind of a service available and
 That gentleman's story I really wanted to share because there's a lot of people who have not only appreciated this service, but have become dependent on it. And it makes me feel good. I wish I could show you the notes that writers had left on my profile that are just fantastic, that speak to a lot of different perspectives. And...
 Oh, my time's almost up. I'm very happy being a driver. I'm happy to see that the council's interested in making sure safety and all the concerns that have been addressed here today. But don't forget the end user, the customer. Let's not make it hard for them.
 to take advantage of a good thing to our city. Thank you for your testimony. It's great testimony. If you ever have the privilege of picking up that gentleman again, can you please write down some of his tips for keeping a marriage like that for 67 years? That would have been the first question I would have asked him. My thought was, that is love. If I could find somebody to love me like that man loved his wife, I'd get married again. Yeah, he's a jewel. Thank you for sharing that story. Good afternoon, sir.
 Good afternoon. My name is John Orr. I'm a radio cab driver. I've been doing it four years. A year and a half ago, I started driving a wheelchair-accessible cab. So, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, thanks for having me up here to talk. A couple quick points. First, I was a little bit frustrated hearing the head of PBOT repeat Uber and Lyft talking points, talking about how great they are for providing jobs for the city. I'm not sure if she's heard the...
 famous Travis Kalanick quote, former CEO of Uber, where he talked about how eager he is to get rid of, quote, the other dude in the car. Both those companies are heavily investing in driverless vehicle technology, so I feel like proponents of TNC's touting how they provide jobs for people, that's really not an argument that's going to be around much longer, at least as far as their investment, if their investment is any indicator of that. Thank you.
 Quickly on the city spending some of this revenue they're taking in from our ride fees on training program. A lot of the people I drive with, I've been at it four years. A lot of people I drive with have been doing it decades. I feel that time on the road and knowledge of the city is the best training and that companies need to be in charge of their own training, and that's what lets companies differentiate themselves. One thing that does, I feel like this is subsidizing Uber's high turnover and...
 I need for training new drivers, and that's their responsibility, Uber and Lyft, to train their new drivers. Now, what I've come up here to talk about has already been touched on. We just want an equal playing field. You know, insurance background checks, safety issues that creates. There's caps, trade dress, insurance.
 Response time issues have been mentioned, and I think someone from Travel Portland was discussing the improvement of service. But that's not necessarily, you know, this isn't a controlled experiment. We didn't see what would happen if we tripled the cap or,
 you know, increase the number of vehicles 10 or 100 or however many fold we did, we just introduced TNCs and all of a sudden we have 10,000 vehicles instead of 500. So we can't say that that was TNCs. We could just as easily say that's the result of having as many vehicles on the road as we do. But I think Uber drivers and cab drivers, briefly to wrap up, have a lot of the same concerns and it's our ability to make a living doing this and...
 Setting caps and setting pricing would accomplish this. Merriam-Webster Law Dictionary defines predatory pricing as the practice of pricing goods below cost and incurring a loss in order to reduce or eliminate competition. So your local cab companies might not invent the next great app, but we do strive to set ourselves apart.
 and serve our customers and have customers continue to choose us by doing what we do well. And we can't do that if the playing field isn't equal. And I wish I had more time because this wheelchair program fundamentally is adding to that. The fact that Uber customers can use their app, but my customers ordering a wheelchair-accessible cab cannot call Radio Cab is a huge flaw in its –
 I cannot emphasize enough how unfair that is. That is part of our customer experience, calling us and not calling the city. And by taking that out of our control, the experience our customers get when they speak with our staff versus your staff.
 then that is fundamentally skewing the playing field. Thank you for that input. Appreciate it. I apologize for going over. No, I was curious. I would have asked a follow-up question anyway, so I appreciate that. Thank you. John, you took up all my time. I'm sorry. No, no, you're starting at 3. You get your own time. I'm just teasing. Anyway, I'm Radio Cap Company. I work for Radio Cap Company for approximately 30 years now.
 and the drivers at Radio Cab are my family. You know, we all love each other and do things to help each other. We also are owner-operated, and it started out with the vets from World War II, you know, forming this company. And now we have drivers that are homeless. We have drivers that are living in shelters. Some even have some blue tarps.
 And it's just because we're so overwhelmed with between, you know, 15 and 20,000, which is probably a more accurate number of Ubers on the street. And, you know, and it's not really the drivers. It's, you know, because, I mean, you know, being here is just knowing that they're not making any money either.
 So there has to be a way to fix this so that everybody can survive. You know, we used to be able to, you know, put our kids through school and do all that stuff, and we can't do that now. In fact, sometimes food is a little scarce. There's several drivers that have food stamps now. And, you know, as far as the insurance goes, you know, commercial insurance so that,
 When there's an accident, everything happens the way it's supposed to. It's a safety measure. By the way, I left my notes home, so I don't mean to be jumping around. And the biggest thing of all is the public safety. You know, please, please, you know, don't let a driver go on the streets until they have a proper background check. I don't know if anybody...
 You know, seeing the thing on Megyn Kelly a couple of weeks ago, it was a whole room full of women that were terrorized by Uber drivers. And I just think that would be such a poor thing, and that would leave, I guess, whoever made the decision responsible for somebody, you know, being hurt.
 And of course the roads another thing, you know by the time I get to work I'm doing this because they're so bad I mean, I'm shaking because there's so many holes and with the extra 10 cents you know per gallon on the gas, I haven't really seen much happen in a year and a half and Also
 You know, because we're required, and I guess we're not required anymore, it's not too bad of an idea for Uber and Lyft to maybe get their own accessible vehicles. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you, all three of you. Thank you. Next three, please, Carla. Are Scott Burge, Amanda Rain, and Dayalo Bennett?
 and they'll be followed by Tori Powell, Jeanette Thebert, and Guy Ocker. Good afternoon. Sir, would you like to start? Sure. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Scott Burge. I don't live in the city of Portland. I'm actually the mayor of the city of Scappoose. I didn't feel like my elected position should get me to the front of the line, though. I'm more than happy to wait in line. Thank you. Appreciate that. Thank you.
 I've been an Uber Lyft driver in the Portland area and the greater metro area, since it's really not just Portland where we drive, for the past two years. I do it as a supplement to other income, but it also gives me the flexibility to get paid what I paid you to speak at the OMA conference a few years back, zero, because most mayors don't get paid anything. If you'd like to double my income, please. Okay.
 I think, in fact, last I checked, there's something like two or three mayors in the state of Oregon that are paid a full-time salary for the job. That's very true. Most of the small town mayors are either a small stipend or it's a volunteer office. And my guess, sir, is that your job is pretty much a full-time job as mayor. Well, not really.
 Well, no, we do have a city manager, but I do, you know, I get 20, 25 hours a week where you're in meetings, you're discussing policy that's going to come up. A lot of the same things that you do in your office, but we're doing it as a volunteer basis. By the way, Mayor, how would you grade us as a deliberative body? Well, I didn't know if there was a signal when we were supposed to start chanting or how that worked, you know. Yeah.
 I did like... You know, I really did, you know, running meetings, I really do like the thumbs up, thumbs down as people are commenting because it's interesting in a way that people can express themselves without trying to shout you down and interfere in your meetings because I think that's a concern that we all have in meetings. And this is going to cause me to run way over my... Carla stopped your time about 15 seconds ago. Okay. As a courtesy. Well, thank you. I would think that on...
 And I've had some initial conversations with other mayors that I know, because we all know each other. I think that some of us would like to have a greater look at, I mean, City of Portland regulations are going to impact Uber drivers that are out in Scafuse because they have to get certified through here or out in Beaverton or Tigard or the surrounding areas. So any regulations that the City of Portland passes are going to have a wider impact, whether it's intended or not.
 And, you know, I think sometimes we would just like to have a voice in what those impacts are going to be because we don't, A, small towns like Schapiro's don't have the capacity to do what PBOT has. But we also, you know, we might recognize that we like the fact that or I like the fact that it is a self-regulated and that every person that gets in my car rates me.
 Every person that gets in my car, I rate, or at least the person that ordered the ride. So there's kind of a dual rating system that says I'm doing a good job or that rider's kind of sketchy. And we can kind of see that in active conversations by drivers are there's riders that if they have too low of a rating, they won't get picked up. They will just not take that ride because they're not seen as good riders because either they're causing problems or whatnot. And so for me, it...
 I like that type of self-regulation where we're self-set up. You know, and it's a pretty high threshold. 4.6 is below that. A driver can be deactivated. So you have to be on your game, and you have to try to provide a good service. The income side, from my estimates, I also sell insurance. So I've got contracts.
 with every insurance company and two TNC companies. You know, all of them have ways for me to work through the companies. But I look at the income, and I'm making plenty of money, and I think more than $18,000 after my expenses with my car. And I have a good car. I'm running out of time, though. But I just would think that that, and then on the TNC board...
 I would think that maybe adding a few people to your current advisory board. It sounds like maybe a couple more taxi, maybe another driver taxi representative, another company, and then on the other side, maybe a driver to, you know, some sort of a – I don't know if we need a wage board. I'm not comfortable with that. I want to be an independent contractor. I don't want to be an employee.
 I accept the contract. It's a contract of adhesion. They give me the contract. I accept it or not. I don't want to accept. I want to be that independent because I enjoy the advantages of that. I choose my hours. I choose when I can. Thanks, Mayor. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners. So I love Portland. Our city is very special. I appreciate it in so many different ways, especially
 And we are experiencing and have been experiencing growing pains. My hope is that the council sees ride-sharing as part of the solution to those growing pains and that there can be those creative solutions, those innovative solutions, that the disruption that technology is having in our world that is going to only continue not just with ride-sharing but in many aspects of our lives that we're not even aware of at this point, that we can continue to have that innovative creative solution mindset.
 You know, I am an independent contractor. As an employee, that requires a certain dedication to the employer, right? When I'm an employee of a company, I have to be dedicated to that employer. I have to show up on time. I have to work my schedule. I have a commitment there.
 With Lyft, I have no obligation to Lyft. I have an obligation to the passengers for safety. I have an obligation to myself to be a wise businesswoman. I have an obligation in the work that I do and the integrity that I show up in. But in terms of Lyft, I have no commitment to turn on that app or turn off that app at any certain time. I am completely independent in that way. And I actually need that. I am an independent businesswoman. I'm an entrepreneur. My commitment is to...
 bring forward effective communication skills to help people have healthier relationships in their lives. The first time I made this jump, soon after I moved to Portland almost six years ago, I fell flat on my face. I ended up houseless. I was a very privileged houseless person in that I had a minivan, right? I had friends who looked out for me.
 But outside of that, right now, Lyft is how I am making my life work in terms of having the foundations covered so that way I can then be the entrepreneur that I need to be, be available for my clients that I'm slowly building, and working.
 doing the work that I am here to do in this world and it is my life's demand. Like there is a demand on me right now that I do this work and bring this forward for whatever impact I can have. And Lyft is an integral piece to that part for me. So if I were to become an employee for Lyft...
 my freedom to be on and off when I need to be on and off is gonna be dissipated or diminished or gone. And for me, that's terrifying because I do not wanna end up houseless again. And I have to, once I turned 40, none of my birthdays really had an impact, but when I turned 40, I was like, it's now or not. I have to bring my gifts forward. And if I don't do this, then I'm not gonna be able to die happy. And so I am on a mission of dying happy.
 And with that, I do want to add that Lyft has an advisory council local specific to Portland that they are currently forming, and I've applied to that. They've had so much demand that they've taken extra time to make their selections. So just so you know, there is an outlet that's happening where it's going to be at least a couple times a month. There's going to be little cafe sessions where drivers can come in and have their voices heard. So I want to say that Lyft is a strong partner, and so the solutions that are needed, we can totally create those. Thank you.
 Thank you for your testimony. Could you give us your name for the record, please? I'm Amanda Rain. Thank you. Thank you, both of you. Thanks, Mayor Birch. Next three, please, Carla. First, was there a Dayalo Bennett? If not, we'll go ahead and go with Tori Powell, Jeanette Thebert, and Guy Ocker. And they'll be followed by Michael Harrington, Chris Holmquist, and Orlando Lopez. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Sir, would you like to start us off, please? Absolutely. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Torrey Powell. I'm very proud to be a Lyft driver here in Portland. I started driving for Lyft back in July of 2015. And the reason why I started was because I needed somehow to find that opportunity that would allow me to go to school and completely support my family as a sole provider and actually have that time to –
 spend time with my family while doing so. I'm also a very proud veteran. Many veterans have a difficult time transitioning into the civilian lifestyle once they come off active duty. A lot of these veterans end up going from one job to the next, sometimes weeks, sometimes months, but it takes them a while to get on their feet.
 One thing I love about Lyft is that it actually affords these veterans the chance to support their families without having the pressures of finding and keeping a conventional or regular job. They can work whenever they want to, whenever they need to, and as much or as little as they can. If they're having a bad day and they can't be around people for whatever reason, they don't have to work, and there's no consequences before that.
 This gives them the ability to slowly transition and gives them the independence and empowerment that they need. One of my favorite experiences with Lyft came around Thanksgiving two years ago. There was a Navy ship that was dry docked for repairs, which means that the sailors cannot leave the area and are stuck on the ship for the duration.
 I worked with one of the chiefs to put on an Adopt-a-Sailor event where members of the community came on Thanksgiving Day and picked up a sailor and took them home for a family experience, a home-cooked meal. I reached out to some of the veteran groups here in town and also the Lyft Facebook page, and I had more volunteers and more people in the community than I had sailors to go around, which was absolutely a phenomenal problem to have.
 In addition to this, I was talking to one of the sailors that I was giving a ride to, and I found that there were no real good options for getting off of Swan Island. Every once in a while, a car to go would be available. The busing system, the times were varied, and they were really far apart. And so Lyft and Uber were the main options.
 and they were getting really expensive. So I talked with Lauren here at the lift office and she gave me a code right away and gave these passengers a 50%, 60% discount on their rides to In-N-Out at Swan Island. So the fact that they were so willing and so eager to give back was amazing. For the record, I...
 drive about 50, 55 hours a week, and I just did the math before I came up here, and I'm averaging before expenses about $26, $27 an hour. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for your testimony, and thank you for your thoughtfulness in terms of servicemen and servicewomen. That's greatly appreciated, and I'm glad that so many people in Portland responded.
 Commissioner Fritz. So when Lyft gives a code, does that then mean that the driver gets less? Absolutely not. As a driver, any code, any discount that a passenger may have, as a driver, I'm not even aware of it. It does not affect my pay whatsoever. Isn't your pay a percentage of what they pay? The pay is based off the fare itself, the ride. So WayLyft and Uber, both how they operate, is that
 they will give me a way bill and that breakdown is for a normal ride. If it's a prime time or surge rating, they will also take that in effect. Now if the passenger has a discount, that's on the passenger's receipt, that does not reflect on what I actually make. Thank you. Very good. Sir, would you like to go next, please? Good afternoon. My name is Guy Ocker. I am a proud Uber driver.
 And I just want to say that Uber is, I take ownership in Uber. Uber is my company, okay? I run it like it's my company, it's my business. If I look familiar to Commissioner Fritz, Saltzman, and Fish, I was here three years ago testifying for my company, Uber.
 I am also a flight attendant for a local airline here. I've been there for pushing 20 years and Uber gives me the opportunity. Well, let me go back a little bit. I was kind of getting burned out with the airline job. And so now I just work there part time. And because of Uber and the flexibility of Uber,
 it supplements my income. And I love it. It's awesome. There are a couple things that I do want to cover here. The number one thing, and I'm not kind of mentioning this, I would actually like to see these numbers. I've asked before. I don't know where to get them. But I want to see the drunk driving numbers before and after my company has came into Portland.
 Okay, I would like to see those numbers to see if they've gone down. Someone testified nationally, but I want to see them in Portland. I want to see the drunk driving crashes, drunk driving deaths, and arrests. Now, I know on the arrests, Portland Police is very shorthanded, so...
 They might be a little off, but at least it gives us an idea. And I'm requesting, I would like to see those. So maybe if I could call your office. I was actually going to, that's in my notes to ask for at the end. So yes, I agree. I want to see those numbers too. Oh, good. We're thinking here a lot. Good. I'm glad. Okay.
 One other thing I would like to mention, I would like to cover, is the congestion in Portland. I just get a feeling that they're trying to throw my company under the bus and blame us for all the congestion in Portland, which is stupid. I mean, let's look at everyone who's moving into our great city here. That's why we have the congestion. Okay.
 Okay, so I that really Bothers me that they're gonna blame my company and left for that. That's ludicrous. It's dumb one other thing I would like to mention here is is I
 People, we have a big convention business here in Portland. People come to our convention center, and a lot of people get into my car, and they say that the reason that they picked Portland, one of the reasons, major reasons, is because my company is here and TNC is here. And that's why they pick it, so the economic value of that is really great. Yeah.
 Sir, can I ask you a question? Sure. And I appreciate that you were here three years ago, and you won't be offended if most of us say we don't recognize you, but that's only because we've probably had 10,000 people come since you. I remember you. But there's – Thank you. That's why Dan is a successful politician of 25 years. Okay. You know, he recognizes you. He probably had you over for Thanksgiving. But the – I just – I'm having –
 I'm having trouble reconciling some of the testimony we're getting here today to the actual issue that's before us. So I just want to step back for a second and just hit the timeout button, because you're free to testify about anything you want. We're glad you're here. What's before us is an ordinance that proposes to make some improvements to our code, which have been reviewed by an oversight body over which there's some disagreement about whether we need some of it or whether we've gone far enough, but that's one piece.
 It seems to me reasonable people can agree or disagree about some of those changes. The city is proposing to more aggressively review the – what is it called? The driver –
 Background checks? The background checks. The city is going to take a second look at background checks. It seems to me one could argue that you may view that as redundant, but if the city wants to do that, I see no harm. And then there's a couple of resolutions directing Bureau staff to collect data and information to inform a subsequent discussion about possible policy. So in light of that, which is what is actually before us,
 Your testimony and a few other people who have testified, in my mind, as I said, listen to it, it almost sounds like someone has told you that the city is thinking of revoking the regulatory agreement with Uber and Lyft. Have you been told that that's a possibility? No, no, absolutely not, no. Okay, so that's not my understanding. That's not on the table. I found nothing, no reference to that in any of the matters before us. Okay.
 I just, for the benefit of people who are going to be testifying subsequently, and it's wonderful to hear good stories. Sir, you were in my office the other day, and I wish you had also told a story about matching service people with families on Thanksgiving. I mean, that just blew me away.
 But, again, those are very wonderful stories, and I applaud people for the choices they make, and we're hearing different versions of different stories about whether people like to work for TNCs or not. Cab companies for three years have had some of the same concerns that I share. But the matter before us is whether we're going to make some code changes and direct staff to do some further fact-finding.
 And I just want to be clear, it's not my understanding that we are here to debate whether Uber and Lyft can continue to operate in our city. That question was decided over my objection. And it seems to me the case has been made, and I don't see any circumstance in the near term where that's going to change. But it is helpful to me as a policymaker to have testimony that addresses the question that's before us. Rather than renewing the case as to whether TNC should be allowed in, that decision has been made.
 And I think it's more helpful to hear about the specific matters before us and why you either agree or disagree with what's being proposed. Or in your case, I think you're saying that we shouldn't even bother collecting the data on a couple of these things, but the council would like to make an informed decision. And that's why I think Commissioner Saltzman's proposal that we wait six months, get good data, and then make a policy decision makes sense because I think we do our best work when we actually have more information.
 Can I just say one thing? I promise it doesn't take five seconds. Maybe ten seconds. Nothing should be changed. I think it works out like a well-oiled machine. It works great. Don't change it. Nothing should be changed. Okay, fair enough. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor, congratulations. I haven't been before you since you've come in. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Jeanette Thiebert.
 Up until about a year and a half ago, I drove a wheelchair accessible taxi cab. I'm here independent of any company coming before you. I will say this. I have had the privilege to sit in on more than a majority of the for hire transportation subcommittee or committee here process. So I've witnessed quite a bit in the last three years.
 I'm going to hit a number of small topics, and then at the end, I'm going to give you a solution. Okay? But through the course of listening today, I've added a few notes to what I wanted to say. I would like to – I do support the caps on TNCs, the safe background –
 provisions, and the insurance and pricing issues that Darren Campbell, Steve Entler, and Noah Ernst brought up. I'm not going to, beyond that, I'm not going to go there. I'm going to ask you to take a look at a broader vision of things, connect the dots to the minutiae and the detail of what's happening. And we had a couple of
 large corporations, venture capital by a too big to fail bank that came into this town and told elected officials just exactly how they were gonna operate in town. And a lot of regulations have shifted. I'm asking you to take a look at who's being marginalized here. Uber and Lyft could have supported all of our community, but they balked at the wave vehicles.
 they still aren't providing service to people who don't have conventional banking. That's one. And now in this new regulation, it is going to tie a cab driver's ability to bank with whom they choose to. And I think that...
 It affects their ability to be independent contractors. It takes one more element of what it is to be an independent contractor. It takes that out. Let me say this, and I'd be happy to explain that in a little more detail. Commissioner, a couple... Why don't you take 20 more seconds, and I'll ask a follow-up question. You said you had a broader idea. I'd certainly like to hear what your idea is. Okay.
 Commissioner Udaly, I think the question is how many months was the taxi rep seat on the private for hire committee vacant? And exactly when was it filled? And basically how much business took place while there was no representative at the table? Okay. Good question. How many times was it convenient to shush down the peanut crowd or the peanut gallery in the back of the room?
 Okay. Because we weren't part of the table. We might have had 20 or 30 years worth of experience. We might have had ideas or simple solutions. But Robert's rules of orders ran supreme. Okay. Let's get this meeting over by five. I think that was part of what people were experiencing. As far as my personal concern is GPS coordinates. Yes.
 versus, and one of my personal concerns is how data is dealt with by the city, and will the city be telling passengers or will the city officials be telling the community at large that you are gathering our data, because you have been. And when there are buildings in this town that deal specifically with one medical issue or another, and some of those buildings take an entire city block,
 I'm thinking of the cancer treatment facility over the Broadway Bridge. Heaven forbid I'd be thinking of some of CAPS or an AIDS facility. When you want exact longitude and latitude data, is that a violation of HIPAA? Interesting question. And I certainly don't want to give you my data. So is there an opt-out for me? No.
 Commissioner Fritz, I think, had a couple of questions. Yeah, I did. If I may, this would be my solution I was going to ask. How many of you can read the number at the bottom? This is about trade dress, okay? This is a symbol. Taxi cabs are required to have on two sides of the vehicle one of three options, the word taxi, the word taxi cab, and the word cab. You choose. It has to be on both sides. We all know how big those letters are.
 Okay, I'm going to give you another opportunity. What's the number at the bottom? Better yet, what's the word? What's the new symbol, could I ask? Because the name can be put on the T-shirt. Why cannot it be put on the decal? And why cannot the decal in Portland...
 Tell a pedestrian, a visitor, somebody else, the car behind them or near them, that this vehicle is registered in Portland and has the appropriate insurance. Okay? So that the one on the other side of me in traffic that has this emblem and out-of-state plates, I know to steer clear because they may not have the level of insurance that somebody has.
 that had gone through the full process in Portland would have to do. Jeanette, you said at the beginning that you drove a van, four-wheelchair accessible, up until a year and a half ago. The fee was supposed to help drivers like you. What happened? What fee? The 50 cents? No, right, right. That hasn't been implemented. That we're still talking about. That the wave service is still months from happening. Right.
 Okay, you collected it. This is part of my question. When I'm saying look big picture, what I'm asking you to really do is follow where the power and where the control went. Because so much of what's happening is going from the power from the city to the companies.
 Okay, and it's but but it's not getting to the drivers and is there a wheelchair driver? Cab driver on the board on the Advisory Committee There is now as of recently. Oh, no, not a wheelchair. Pardon me. There is a cab driver, but not a wheelchair Okay, that's of concern. Thank you very much. I appreciate you taking the time to come back. Thank you all three of you Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. I believe we only have four more. I'm sorry. Seven more seven. Yeah, that's three. Oh
 are Michael Harrington, Chris Holmquist, and Orlando Lopez, and they'll be followed by Kirk Foster, Douglas Wright, and Dirk Warninghoff.
 All right, so I don't want to lose my quorum, so we are going to be a little more tight with the three minutes. We really enjoyed the testimony today, folks. It's been fabulous, and so I hate to hold people to the three minutes, but just given the hour, we're going to have to do that. Good afternoon, sir. My name is Michael Harrington. I'm an inventor, statistician, mathematician, owner of my own driving company, and more. Thank you.
 But we'll keep this short. Driving statistics real quick in the city of Portland. Fatalities are down to 38.8% from the 1982 figures for drunk driving. Now, at the same time, however, hard alcohol sales since the 80s has been dipping until recently, where it is finally equalized to the 80s.
 So we're having more hard alcohol at the same time as we're having more Lyft rides and less fatalities. This is not necessarily correlation, but it's very indicative that there is a cause and effect going on somewhere. And it's probably Lyft and Uber ride share vehicles involved.
 The affordability is a big deal for many of the drunks that I handle at night. And I do handle a lot of drunks. I stay out until 2 a.m. However, I want to get to some of the GPS as well, though. The problem that you are creating is one of security. Literally, if the largest financial institution in the United States that does all of our credit background checks...
 can be hacked. The city of Portland can be hacked too. The FBI has been hacked numerous times. The NSA has been hacked. This data is information that has extreme value in the outside world. Okay? Collecting it induces risk. Risk to every citizen in the city of Portland and surrounding cities. Because you'll be collecting data from rides, presumably that start outside of Portland and go into Portland, and vice versa. Now, I,
 I am an owner. I plan my rides. I plan where I'm going. I plan every little bit of my business. At times, I make really miserable money. At other times, I make amazing amounts of money.
 Okay? From $70 to $350 in a day and then the next day. Okay? This is the kind of things that businesses experience. My average, however, is 20 to 25. 20 in the slow season, 25 to even 30 in midsummer. Okay? Okay?
 It's a business. Drivers need to go and find the areas that work. Not everywhere is a business-efficient location. Every store knows that. We're not stores, but we do have a connection to where the rides are currently at. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. My name is Christopher Holmquist. I'm born and raised here in Portland. I want to add that when I was shopping for insurance...
 I got rideshare insurance. My insurance agent told me that I would not be declined. My claim would not be declined, I'd still have them. I'll leave my business card if you want that connection, I'll be happy to give it to you. I'm also a board member of the Oregon Electric Vehicle Association. I'm working with Katie Coast and Uber to help develop Uber Electric.
 It's the first of its kind program in the entire country. I myself drive an all-electric Nissan Leaf. Driving these cars in Portland as a native shows visitors that we are a progressive-thinking, forward-thinking community. We just are. When they see an electric vehicle on the platform, it's a sense of pride for our visitors here. And I want to be able to say this.
 that our community supports electric vehicles. And for you guys to get rid of Uber and Lyft would mean, that would show that we don't care, plain and simple. I'm grateful for the opportunity that Uber and Lyft has given me to help counsel other drivers on which electric cars to find for them.
 for the opportunity to help educate other drivers and represent this progressive thinking state that I call home. And I'm very proud to be a part of that. Thank you, appreciate your being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, commissioners and mayor. My name is Orlando Lopez. Quick response to a few of the comments that were made before. First of all, didn't Uber have a breach in data and they failed to report it within actually days, weeks, or even months?
 That was something that happened. So I mean people's information is already at risk. My name is Ardano Lopez, like I said before, and I'm a driver with Lyft. I've been driving for a while now, almost a year. And in the beginning I really enjoyed my job because I get to set my own hours. I can turn off and turn on, turn off the app whenever I want. And this is something that attracts a lot of drivers. What we're proposing here is not going to change that.
 They also offer driving bonuses for meeting a number of rides given during the week. But as time has gone on, I'm beginning to resent the fact that I don't get to voice any of the changes that Lyft or Uber makes. When I started driving for Lyft, they told me that they were only going to be taking 25% of ride fares.
 and that I would be keeping the remaining 75. This has not been the case because in addition to their 25 percent, they are adding a booking fee and increasing that booking fee without actually consulting drivers. When I started driving, you only had to give 25 rides, 15 of which were given during peak hours to qualify for the first tier of bonuses. That number has increased to 45 rides, which 35 have to be given during peak hours.
 And peak hours is essentially when people are going to work, coming back from work, or during the weekends when people are out in the bars. This leads drivers to drive strange schedules and drive many long hours with little rest to achieve these bonuses. I actually talked to several drivers who have worked more than 56 hours to chase these bonuses, and that was before the last increase.
 Earlier today, Lyft CEO John McNeil released a statement discussing how he has been inspired by drivers who have been so resourceful in trying to save on our costs to increase our profits and has decided to invest in their drivers by providing discounts on oil changes, coffee and refreshments, discount car rentals, bathrooms, etc.
 Extending the hub hours. You know, these are things that employers typically already provide to their employers, or I mean, to their employees. So, like, why do we have to wait so long to get these things? If Lyft is really on our side, they would be increasing the rates as gas prices go up. They would consult drivers, increasing booking fees on a whim. They would restore the rates that they originally had before they reduced them in 2016. That has not been the case.
 You may be wondering why LIF, if LIF is so bad, why am I driving with them? Well, it isn't easy to answer that question. But more than anything, it's because of the flexibility. What other job can you set your own hours? There's very few. I did want to comment on something Commissioner Fritz talked about around equity, if I may. I'm really glad that you brought that up because
 TNCs is not equitable. The cheapest ride on Lyft is $7.80 and that doesn't matter if you're going one block, two blocks, that's the cheapest ride.
 And then providing discounted fares during holidays, that's not equitable because typically the people who go out on those holidays to drink are people who have means to do so, not low-income folks. There's different ways to use those resources equitably. I am actually a transit advocate. One of the things that other jurisdictions are doing like Chicago is using those resources to give bus prioritization because it's low-income folks who use buses.
 And TNCs are driving or taking away riders from buses, not like low-income riders. They're taking choice riders, people who have the means to pay for TNCs because they don't want to wait for buses. Because what is going on is the congestion that's going on is causing people, for buses to be delayed, and therefore they don't see them as reliable options. Thank you.
 That is all. Thank you. Great. Thank you both for your testimony. We appreciate it. Next three, please, Carl. Are Kirk Foster, Douglas Wright, and Dirk Warninghoff. And then the last person will be Greg McCoy.
 Good afternoon, sir. Would you mind starting for us? Sure. Thank you. My name is Kirk Foster. I have Wapato Shores Transport. Could you move a little closer to the mic just so we can hear you? Yeah, my name is Kirk Foster. I own Wapato Shores Transport, and we do accessible transportation and emergency transportation or non-emergency medical transportation. I just wanted to say I'm glad the WAVE program –
 Nicole and Jeanette kind of already said most of what I had to say, so I'll cut it really short. I'm glad the WAVE program is finally starting to come online. Commissioner Frist, I'm responsible for your statement about the fees. The fee's been charged for three years, but the subsidy hasn't been actually going to anybody yet. And so that was the delay in getting a lot of the cab companies up and running, because we're just now talking about implementing it next this summer, but it hasn't actually started yet.
 So we've been talking about this, many of us in this industry, for at least eight, nine years trying to get this through. And it was proposed last year was when we finally got to speak before the council and actually make a case to get it to go. And that's the reason for the delay. So a lot of drivers have gone off the road with their vehicles in the private for hire because of the delay.
 Most of what was, like I said, we finally got it going. The one concern that I do have, we won't, my company, just so I don't have a dog in this fight, won't be participating in this program because we don't do hailed rides. But I do have a lot of customers that schedule rides with us that have expressed some concern that they don't want to have to call a central line, that they'd rather call the for hire driver they're used to, which, again, is not us. So I don't have an argument for them in that regard.
 And since the TNCs are being allowed to directly work with their – or clients are being able to directly contact the TNCs, I think there should be some vehicle for people that would rather go with another company to contact those companies directly and rather – but those companies now, if they do have a direct communication with their passengers, will lose access to the fee or the subsidy rather.
 And so I think there should be some thought given to going around the program. I know PBOT is looking at this as a pilot. But as soon as the pilot's done, I think that's something that should be really addressed closely.
 About all I had to say on the wave thing, I am wanting to make sure that when you do go collect, if you're going to collect GPS-labeled data, the city has to do some kind of public campaign to let passengers know this is happening because that's some very, very sensitive information. As Jeanette said, if they are going to medical appointments or something, a precise location does fall under federal privacy protections, and so that's something the city might need to have a lawyer take a look at.
 The one last thing is what Mr. Antler brought up that I'd like to address as kind of a side note, is the background checks and fingerprinting. Our industry is required by any transit authority we work with to run fingerprint checks. And what we found is the transit authorities will not disclose to us what they find. They'll just give a thumbs-up or a thumbs-down to the driver.
 But we have, I would say, roughly one out of 50 drivers I have run through the current background check system comes back with nothing on their record. But then a transportation authority, say TriMet or Sunset Empire Transit or TransLink, will come back and say, thumbs down, you cannot have this person. There's something on the record that we found through the fingerprints that does not show up in the city's background check process through the Universal. So it's something I think should be researched. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Douglas Wright. I've been a rideshare driver for Lyft and Uber for six months now. I do not support the idea that there needs to be a new city board to further oversee rideshare companies' operations. I still haven't seen any substantial evidence that makes this necessary in my personal experience. I say this as a full-time driver who did occasionally make minimum wage after expenses for a short time when I first started out.
 What happened with me is I continued to do the job and apply myself to the idea that I could make more money. And over time, I did make more money, quite a bit more, a lot more. Now I average at least $25 to $30 an hour before taxes and expenses, which,
 I say to the people that say that I make $9 an hour or less, or minimum wage even, after expenses, that's complete garbage. So I find the idea of a need for a government-mandated living wage absolutely ridiculous. Nothing could incentivize drivers to be worse at their jobs more than a policy like this.
 If you think about it, all someone would need to do is leave their app on in an area that they know would be guaranteed not to get a ride, and then let the money pour in while they surf Instagram. You could put in safeguards against that to shut them off if they do that, but then they could just do it again. There'd be no way to prove that they were doing that. That's a very messy idea.
 When I hear the idea floated that ride-share companies are exploiting drivers, I laugh at that. We are not victims of ride-share companies. If the business is not working for someone, if the job is not a good fit, that person should really go do something else, seriously. It's not a job that should be considered as a last resort. You shouldn't do this out of desperation. You should do this as you would any other job that you think you would be good at and would enjoy doing.
 There are a ton of job opportunities in Portland, and no one is compelling anyone to be a ride-share driver, so I have no sympathy for anybody making any complaints whatsoever because you agreed to the terms of service. So if you do that, you can't complain about the terms of service that you agreed to after and expect me as a driver, as a fellow driver, to care. I don't.
 I just want to make one other point about how we got here. Excuse me, sir, can I just ask you a question? Oh, sure. Does your view about terms of service and not complaining about them extend to consumers as well? Sorry? Do you think consumers who get in a car and who automatically are subscribing to the terms of service have waived their right to complain about any of those terms? I'm just talking about from a driver perspective. Are you talking about from a passenger perspective? Yeah. Okay.
 I guess that's situational.
 Well, you seem to be very knowledgeable about the industry. You're not aware of what – I'm not an expert. I'm just stating, like, how I feel about what I see happening. Well, you've been speaking on behalf of a lot of people, and I appreciate that. But since you seem to be an authority on all the other drivers, I was going to give you an opportunity to answer the question of whether you think consumers who waive their rights by getting in your car –
 are being well served by terms of service that, for example, mandate arbitration of any claim they have. I think if – That's fair? Yes. Sure. I think if there's terms of service that are unfair and people can respond to that and stop using a product or a service –
 If a customer had that concern, what's the forum that you recommend they go to to express their displeasure with the fact that they may have a claim of sexual violence involving a driver and they disagree with being required to arbitrate that claim? Where would you send them? I would send them to Lyft or Uber customer service where they've been 100% helpful with every single situation that I've ever encountered. I'm simply –
 I'm trying to make a very simple point here, which is I think it is dangerous for us to generalize about the experiences of others beyond ourselves. I appreciate you have had a positive experience. But when I hear, and you're not alone, people come before this body and essentially say that the claims of other drivers are invalid –
 and that they don't need to have a forum to have those issues addressed, it almost sounds to me like the taxpayer who says, you know, I'm never going to have a fire, so why do we have a fire bureau? Or the person who says, I'm not litigious, so why do we have a court system?
 or maybe even Zsa Zsa Gabor's first husband saying, we love each other, I don't need a prenup. I mean, at what point? I mean, we can take this to a very extreme place. I may borrow that one. That's a good one. And I just want to say, just from my point of view, I find it much more compelling...
 to hear from people about how to make this wage board or this administrative body work for those who feel they need it, not to have people come up and lecture people, other people, about their ability to have any of their claims heard. And it seems to me, I appreciate your view, that under no circumstance do you think you would ever need an administrative body to resolve a claim. You're perfectly free to say that, and I appreciate that, because with over 10,000 drivers, we cannot adjudicate 10,000 claims a year.
 But how on earth does that address the fact that others may have a different view? And what is the harm of having a forum where at least we can have a conversation in a transparent way about these kinds of claims? And if in the course of that we learn there's a problem with the industry that we can fix, isn't that our job to protect workers and consumers?
 Well, I think it's your job to demonstrate a substantial need. And I haven't seen that demonstrated where an Uber and Lyft haven't responded to it. I haven't heard of any specific instance of them ignoring someone and stuff not happening.
 It seems like we're trying to come up with a band-aid for a hypothetical wound that is already being worked on by the rideshare companies. It just doesn't seem necessary to me, just logically. I appreciate that. And that to me sounds like we don't need to do it because there's already other ways.
 recourse, either through the company or through the private for hire board or something else. It seems to me. Well, that's helpful testimony. You believe that not that people don't have valid claims, but you think there might be other places where they can get relief. Absolutely. That sounds different than why is everyone complaining these companies are great and why do we need a body to resolve their claims. So I appreciate that nuance. Thank you.
 The gentleman still has 30, you still have 37 seconds to testify. The last thing I just wanted to make a point about was how we actually got here and sitting all talking about this in the first place. Because when I first saw this story in the media, all the stories were claiming that this was an impetus by drivers. So I did a walk-by of the rally outside, and I noticed that
 Over half the people were clearly not drivers. They had union shirts on, and maybe they're union and drivers. I don't know. But it seemed like the majority of people weren't drivers, and it was such a small number. And I heard it claimed that there was hundreds of people they talked to, but it just seemed weird.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Dirk Wernigoff, and I'm here to put you to task about your present PPOT rules and now the nonsense 156-page revision poorly written document by Mark Williams and the hand-picked committee. The committee I was told last year I couldn't be on basically because I wasn't an immigrant.
 The biggest concern I have is the insurance requirements for all transportation providers. Do you know that when you approved the TNCs to come to this market in 2015, that not one insurance company in the whole state of Oregon offered them insurance for a year and a half until November, December? So that means that drivers with Oregon licenses actually did not have any insurance by anyone. And meanwhile, without having any insurance, they were able to put lots of people at risk and...
 You let the TNCs get a grip hold because they didn't have to have as high affairs since they didn't have the same insurance requirements. So basically, people running around on a $50,000 policy that may be null and void in case something happens doesn't seem right. And I'm just here to ask you to maybe make it, just like the taxi companies, half a million for everyone at all times. Not this period one, period two, period three baloney. Just make it a half a million for everyone. If I have to pay that, so should they.
 Let's see here. The second biggest issue I have, in my humble opinion, is that the private hire needs to have a permit issued by the city for everybody. This past week, nine congressmen are asking to talk to the TNCCOs about better background checks. At least 103 Uber drivers have been accused of sexually assaulting or abusing U.S. passengers in the past four years. At the state meeting that I attended a year ago when Uber left tried to go around your guys' back and pass statewide regulations, they actually had lobbyists try to argue that fingerprint background chintings was racist.
 Please require a private fire permit for all drivers. TNC companies said that they would not surge price during states of emergency, yet during last year's snowstorm, when Governor Brown declared a state of emergency, they were surge pricing like crazy. A similar ride by a radio cab for a Kaiser hospital nurse ran $70. Meanwhile, in an Uber Lyft, it was $300 during the state of emergency, just like they said that they wouldn't do. TNCs have an FF rating with the Better Business Bureau. Please have them do higher insurance requirements, please.
 And, yeah, insurance requirements, better background checks, that would be awesome. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you, for your testimony. The last person is Greg McCoy. Mr. Greg McCoy. Hi. My name is Greg McCoy. I drive for Uber Lyft. And I eliminated a bunch of things to say because it's been said previously. It seems like a bunch of people asking for a bunch of things. They want help.
 for things they're not willing to change themselves. It comes from both sides. It could be competition. It could be some of the drivers. The issue about the background checks, I don't have a problem with. But I do know a couple, personally, a couple convicted felons that do drive for taxis now, so I don't know how they got by. So I don't know what's the better one. If it's the additional costs, I heard somebody wanted to know who was going to pay for that.
 From what I understand, there's $3 million parked somewhere in the city's coffers from the fees they've got from Lyft and Uber already. Nothing's being done with. I mean, can't they use that if they decide to go along with this? Or can they use that to make better stops for Lyft and Uber to pick up people getting off of Max or something? Use some of that $3 million to make some spaces for that. I heard about congestion.
 Funeral processions congest traffic a lot. Victims of drunk drivers. I mean, everybody's concerned with the business end of it. This week's Monami Week. Portland's drunk history. We're a drinking town. Hard liquor sales are now beer now. Nine, ten percent alcohol. People get drunk to wash away their troubles because they can't buy houses and they hate their roommates. They get drunk and go home. You know?
 So, I mean, everybody's drinking day and night. So that really needs to take a hard look at, you know, the bad drivers that's taken off the road, the potential victims. You won't have a video of potential victims because they're not victims because somebody took an Uber or Lyft home. So I'm sure there was something else I wanted to say. I think that would be it right now. Oh, yeah, as far as I've worked 20 years for FedEx. It was non-union.
 That's because I'm getting the impression that some early union organizing kind of going around and getting that vibe. FedEx didn't have a union. We didn't need it. And as was said before, the guy I was sitting there before, there seems to be ways to resolve issues.
 that come up with passengers, passenger safety and all that. I mean, from where I sit, they've got outlets. So I don't know how much anything special needs to be situated or set up to deal with that. So thanks. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, everybody who testified. We always appreciate it. Do you want the staff to come back up? I think so. Director Treat, if you and your team could come up, please. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. So I previously asked you to, and you said you would get me the taxes for the taxi companies, what they've paid since the TNCs came into town, so I'd like to know that. I would like to know the DUI stats the year before the TNCs started operating and now. Thank you. I have a question about background checks.
 Is the proposal to allow drivers with TNCs to drive for 30 days before getting the background check?
 The proposal is to allow any company that chooses to run their own background checks that the drivers, whether it's an NEMT, a taxi, or TNC, to get a conditional permit for up to 30 days. We anticipate that we will probably be able to screen those, you know, re-screen, if you will, those background checks within a week. Okay. Well, we just heard testimony that one in 50 people
 when you do the fingerprint check, they get rejected. And that is relatively high in my opinion. So I know I lost on this three years ago about having TNC drivers fingerprinted. I really think that that needs to be looked at again. So I think there may be some opportunities to look for things as part of the ongoing study. On the Resolution 519 that sets the driver down,
 Regulatory Board Commissioner Fish, we heard testimony about DNC drivers having to drive extremely long hours and or first thing in the morning and late at night in order to catch the peak periods.
 Could we add to the be it further resolved, you have the proposal is to create a new oversight body that focuses on wage disputes, transparent accounting, and equitable dispute resolution. Could we make that wage disputes, transparent accounting, driver safety, and equitable dispute resolution? Yes. Are you working off of the original draft or my amendment? Yes.
 I think my amendment makes some changes. Can we use that as the mark? Sorry, yes, you're right. Maybe after public safety? Yes, so have driver safety, safety and reliability for passengers, because I am very concerned about drivers and how we track. I know that we had in the regulations how many hours a day and hours a week. How do we track that? And so I think that that would be a good board to do that.
 Before we move off of that, legal counsel, can that qualify as a friendly amendment? Yeah. Commissioner Fish, are you comfortable with that? I consider it a friendly amendment, and the only question is, do we just say public and driver safety or public safety, driver safety? Either way, I accept it as a friendly amendment. And I would suggest having them separate, so it's really clear we want both. I accept that. Thank you.
 Excuse me. Just so Carla and I are clear, it's public safety, driver safety, safety and reliability for passengers. Correct. Correct. Okay. Very good. All three of those are really important to me. Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciate that. Is it correct that the wheelchair accessible vehicle users cannot call direct to the company that they like to use? Yes.
 That is correct, but they can call the dispatch service and specifically request the company that they want, and the dispatch service will refer them directly to the company they're asking for. And what's the reason for that?
 Well, to have the centralized wave dispatch. And part of what we're trying to do is make sure that the vehicle that is closest to the person requesting the ride gets the ride. So we're trying to speed up the service. But if people don't want to have the closest vehicle available, they can make a specific request. Like if they want radio cab, they can call. Can they request a specific driver? Yeah.
 Yes, Commissioner, they can request a specific driver. Well, then it still seems inequitable. If they want a specific driver, if I don't need a wheelchair, I can call Radio Cabin and request a specific driver. If I need a wheelchair, I can't do the same thing? Just to expand a little bit on that, Commissioner, to get the ride subsidy –
 They have to go through the central dispatch, but a rider could, if they wanted a radio cab or a Broadway cab, they could call directly to that and ask for a specific driver. They can still do that, and those rides will be dispatched. But it's only for the subsidy it allows us to track those rides. Well, I think that's something I would request you would look at again, because it's not fair if there's a different set of rules for people with disabilities as for...
 People who don't. And I expect during this pilot early on, we're going to learn a great many things, and that may be one of them that we can alter. Yeah, it seems like the cab is there. And if there's a mechanism for the driver to say it was occupied by somebody in a wheelchair, they would then be able to bill for the subsidy. So I think that's of great concern. I would like to see a wheelchair access vehicle driver on the board. I think that's essential.
 And then there was a, in the resolution, I know we're going to be looking in detail at the insurance question, and that remains my greatest concern. There was a question raised in testimony about if there's a crash in period one, and the driver is on both Uber and Lyft, whose insurance coverage covers? So I think that's something that I would like to get ironed out and specified. And then I would like...
 Obviously, I'd like you to involve me in the discussions on that insurance investigation so that I can give you further information about things I'm particularly concerned about. Thank you. Commissioner E. Daly. Thank you, Mayor. I would like to voice my shared concerns with Commissioner Fritz about the wave pilot. I think I understand the...
 intention. I think the spirit is right on, but I'm concerned that we're setting up a system that's kind of separate, separate but equal, but maybe not quite equal. So I would also really want to see a stakeholder from the disability community on that.
 on that committee. I don't see why we can't have, people can't have two options. It does make sense to have a central line to call if someone is in urgent need of transportation and needs to identify the closest vehicle, but it doesn't make any sense at all to me that they wouldn't be able to just directly contact their company of choice and or driver if that is not, if urgency is not an issue. So,
 This has been a really interesting discussion. I want to thank everybody who came today. I share a lot of similar concerns with most of my colleagues, I think. I really want to see parity between the TNCs and the cab companies. I understand that...
 While TNCs and cab companies may be different breeds, I see them as the same species. And while I'm not concerned whether they both have the same meters or they both have lights on top of their vehicles or, you know, any other minor details, I am very concerned about insurance background checks, safety checks,
 and things of that nature where we're not holding them to the same standard. I'm a little frustrated by the lack of transparency about how many cars are actually on the road. If we, in fact, have 10,000 cars on the road, that means we have one TNC for every 64 residents of the city of Portland. Right.
 That's a pretty extraordinary number. That doesn't include cabs at all. And I'm very interested in limiting the number of those cars on the road. Some really great issues were brought up today. Number one, it's undoubtedly creating congestion in our city. It's adding to pollution. It's impacting mass transit ridership.
 And it's just the exact opposite of what we want to see happening on our roads right now. I'm always intrigued when I hear people voting against or advocating their own interests. And while I really enjoyed the testimony of the last community member who got up, his last remark sticks in my craw about working for FedEx and not needing a union.
 Well, let's talk about why he didn't need a union. That's because unions have delivered things like weekends, breaks at work, paid vacation, FMLA, sick leave, Social Security, minimum wage, civil rights acts, eight-hour workday, overtime pay, Occupational Safety and Health Act, 40-hour work week. I could go on and on and on, but I think everyone gets the point.
 It's absurd to me to suggest that TNC drivers don't need to have a voice and shouldn't be allowed to organize and respond and make demands. We're looking at a reality where 40% of our workers may be working in this kind of unsecure work.
 I've been enjoying the thumbs down back there today, gentlemen, especially the thumbs down on workers having a voice. That's just mind-boggling to me, but thank you for the entertainment. Just absurd, so I will definitely be supporting that. I don't have any amendments to make today, but I'm looking forward to this continued conversation. Commissioner Fish.
 You know, at the beginning of the hearing, we heard from a number of taxi cab leaders, and then the testimony sort of swung to mostly the TNCs. I want to go back to a couple of the questions and comments we got earlier, and I don't remember anyone asking this question. So we asked, you know, how many drivers, TNC drivers do we think there are, and you said over 10,000. We had Uber got up and said they have about 7,000. Okay.
 Do we know how many people drive a taxi cab in our city? We know the number of permits issued. Right, and that's roughly? I think we're at roughly 700. I think it's probably a little bit higher, maybe about nine. But a permit doesn't mean that someone's actually using it, so it doesn't correspond to a driver? Correct. So I could have a permit, but it could be dormant?
 It could be. I mean, right now permits are actually free for taxi drivers. So you may find a driver that gets a permit and then decides that maybe they want to go do something else. We still show that as an active permit. As an active permit. And have we tracked over the last, say, three years whether there's been a significant decline in the number of permits? Yes.
 We actually did. So back in early 2015, when council deregulated the moratorium, if you will, the cap on taxis, we actually saw the number go up significantly. So right now there are more taxi drivers permitted than there ever were. Permitted, but we don't know whether they're driving. Correct. I'm sorry, that's a weird distinction. Do we have the capacity to...
 to bridge that divide and know what, at any given period of time, how many taxi cab drivers there are? Is that something we can... Yeah, I think we can work closely with the taxi companies to find out, out of the number of permits we show are certified by your company, how many of these drivers are currently driving. We could get that information from them. But if every permit was in operation during normal business hours, we're still talking about something like...
 You said 700, 900? About 900 to 1,000, somewhere in between there. So there's about a 10 to 1 ratio between TNC drivers and taxi cab drivers today. Is that about right? Roughly, yes. Okay. And, Director Treat, I'm not as familiar with the code changes, and that's going to go to a second reading anyway. We're not voting on that today.
 Were there any issues raised at the beginning of the hearing that were new to you in terms of things you want to take a look at in terms of proposals that are in the code? No. I think we're quite – no, there weren't quite well prepared for this. There weren't any surprises, and I think it's reflective of all the work that we would like to undertake as well. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 I was intrigued about the issue about using GPS. Is there a reason we need GPS-specific data as opposed to whatever data we use now, like the corner of Fifth and Main or something like that? Yeah, I mean, I think it's –
 Maybe you could answer this better. Sure. But we currently just have zip code data, which doesn't tell us a lot about... We can only know where somebody's traveling in a certain zip code, so we're trying to get at a more granular level to understand movements in smaller segments, to understand where people are actually going. Are people actually taking Lyft to transit? Is somebody taking an Uber to a meeting? Are they using it to commute? So having more granular data will help us dissect how people are using the system. Right, but won't that information also be...
 Give a very precise history of somebody's movements. Well, it comes to us anonymized. It will come to us anonymized. Correct, Commissioner. So we receive the data. Currently, just for clarification, the code does not require GPS data.
 All the companies currently volunteer GPS data. Initially, that request was made to help us better charge them a more accurate surcharge, since we have some zip codes that borderline with Beaverton. If you just gave us the zip code and the ride actually picked up in Beaverton, we shouldn't be charging you a surcharge.
 So over time, the companies all initially – or over time, the companies all volunteered the GPS data. Now we're just putting the language in code, but it is the current practice today. So could I ask a clarification, Commissioner Saltzman, on your line of questioning? I feel like I'm hearing two slightly different things. Is the data that we get and that you're stewards of and that we are –
 to protect is it anonymous data or is it coming in specifically to individual users that is correct it is anonymized so we do not know who it is who the passenger is we don't even know if there is a data breach it is your belief that the data could not be tracked back to an individual user is that correct or not correct
 The data that we have could not. The city data could not be tracked. I'm not talking about Uber or Lyft or anybody else's data. I'm talking about once we are the stewards of that data, it is already disaggregated from the individual user level. Is that correct? Correct. Thank you. But so the other kind of data breach that might occur is the data that Uber or Lyft has about their customers. And when there's a data breach of that firewall,
 then someone could improperly obtain information that might otherwise be protected by federal privacy laws. On Uber's system? Yes, yes. I wouldn't know how to respond to that question. I don't understand the security. Well, we know there was a data breach at one of them. Sure. I have to say, this is one of the things about the new world of technology that I loathe is the complete absence of privacy. Right.
 that we have, and I'll just give you one example. I mean, I've been very public with my battle with cancer, and from time to time I will Google information about cancer, treatments, data, because I'd like to be better informed. Almost invariably within the next week I get unsolicited e-mails offering me discounts on burial insurance and other kinds of things. It is just mind-boggling, the lack of privacy and privacy.
 that we now take for granted. And those kinds of things, to me, are very disheartening. And if I could just add one more thing to that. I don't know if Commissioner Saltzman, if I interrupted your line of questioning here.
 This is the second time today in the context of two completely separate conversations and two separate council sessions that we've had this data conversation. We had somebody this morning testify around data stewardship and transparency and all that. On one hand, there's the protection.
 of critical data about our residents. And as I'm sure we're all aware, the city of Portland is a frequent target of cyber attacks to try and gain access to the data that we do have and that we do collect. So that's one concern. The other is the reality that we can no longer really protect data. We have an obligation as a public entity to be transparent. Right.
 and accountable to the public, and therefore people can request data. And sometimes it is clear that we can protect that data. Sometimes it is less clear that we can protect that data. And sometimes we think we can protect the data, but in reality we cannot protect the data. And that's up to the courts to decide, and we comply.
 And so we have our Office of Community Technology that's looking at this larger question of data in the modern world and our obligations as stewards, our obligations around transparency and accountability, and how we manage that data. And it's certainly coming up in other contexts. The whole conversation around body-worn cameras in the police bureau is really a question about data, accountability, who gets to manage the data, how is it managed,
 and what is disseminated when and under what circumstances. So I hope this conversation around data management becomes part of the larger conversation we're having with the Office of Community Technology and all the bureaus around the appropriate stewardship standards for data. And I was really appreciative of the people who today testified on that subject, because it's a very hot, very pertinent, very timely subject. Commissioner Fritz, did you commission you daily? Yes.
 Very good. All right. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, I would, since it's late in the day and we have an ordinance and two resolutions, I would just move to a vote the amendments to item 519. Let's do it in order, please. First of all, item 518, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. Next item is item 519. We'll call the roll on the Fish Amendment. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment stands. Next item is the Fritz amendment to item 519. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Call the roll on the resolution as amended. 519 Fish. First, I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman for bringing the ordinance and the two resolutions forward today.
 I want to thank PBOT staff for their outstanding presentation, and I want to thank the public for taking time to come and testify today and to share their perspective on this. And I appreciate my colleagues and Commissioner Saltzman accepting the proposed amendments to the resolution. I've listened very carefully today to the testimony, which I thought was, in the main, very thoughtful.
 And the principal argument that I have heard for why we should not consider having some kind of TNC regulatory body or wage board or whatever you want to call it is that a number of current TNC drivers could not imagine a circumstance in which they would need to use it. And I appreciate that. And I actually think that's a fair argument to make.
 and if they believe it's either unnecessary or redundant, that's as good as any reason to oppose a new body of this kind. I think there's a compelling reason for us to embrace this idea and be a national leader around this concept because I'm persuaded that TNC drivers do not have a voice, a meaningful voice in the workplace. And, you know, I heard a couple of people testify that,
 that they heard in the distance the drumbeat of labor here, and as if that were to discredit this movement. I want to be very transparent about how I came to this position. I have been approached by TNC drivers. I have talked to local labor organizations. I have talked to community advocacy groups. I have done some homework, and I've read a lot of materials about similar movements in other cities that
 And I actually would be very proud to live in a city that was the first city to establish a board of this kind that gave TNC drivers a chance to voice their concerns. We have a very clear policy at the City of Portland, which is strict neutrality in labor matters. We are opposed to people putting unnecessary or illegal barriers in the way of employee choice.
 But beyond that, we respect the right of employees and workers to decide if they want to be represented and by whom. And it would be entirely inappropriate for the city of Portland to become directly involved in those kinds of movements. At the same time, what I have learned in my research is that TNC drivers really do fall into a gray area. And it's an area that I call legal limbo.
 And if I were a TNC driver, I would be very frustrated by the fact that my status and other people's view of my status change depending on who I talk to. If I talk to the state labor commissioner, he's been persuaded that I'm probably an employee.
 If I talk to certain members of the legislature that were prepared to preempt our authority to regulate and to declare by Fiat that TNC drivers were independent contractors, apparently they were persuaded otherwise. Most of us have a clear understanding of where we stand. And where we stand as either contract employees or employees triggers a whole host of rights and responsibilities. But I think it is a little unfair –
 to criticize people who ask for a place to have justice done, to criticize them by claiming that, well, this question has been decided. As far as I can tell, the question of the status of TNC drivers has not been decided. And I don't think I would be as committed to this cause if that issue had been clearly resolved one way or another.
 I thought Commissioner Udaly made a very eloquent point earlier when she talked about the benefits of the labor movement, but by implication she also talked about the benefits of being an employee in our economy. Employees have substantial rights. They have places they can go to get recourse and exercise those rights. They get payroll taxes paid for by their employer. They have places they can go if they have wage disputes. They can go to court. They can do many things. A unique feature of laborers,
 Contract labor in this country is that systematically contract labor is seeing their rights diminished. And systematically, justice is in the form of a private arbitration done out of public airing where the deck is stacked against that individual. And I have to say, I want to compliment Uber and Lyft for what we've been reading in the last few days, where at the national level they've reversed course and announced that –
 particularly women who have brought forth claims in a class action of sexual assault and violence in this setting, they're no longer going to require that those claims go to arbitration. Instead, it appears that they're both recognizing the importance of having those claims aired in a public courtroom. Well, I believe that TNC drivers deserve a voice in the workplace. I think the kind of body that we are contemplating here is pretty modest. Right.
 but it is an opportunity to have those claims heard. I have great confidence that PBOT is going to come back with a workable solution. We appear to have the funding so that there won't be any general fund hit, and I commit as a member of the council to working with my colleagues to make this work. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank Bureau of Transportation personnel,
 and leaders who have worked on these issues for some three years now, and our private advisory committee for transportation, or private for hire committee, for the hard work they do.
 on wrestling with all these issues and putting forward recommendations that we are considering or will be considering next week at the second reading, but also today, these resolutions and everybody who showed up today. I mean, it's you've provided us with a very host of great perspectives on, you know, an industry that, as I said, my opening remarks, you know, three years ago, it wasn't even here. So it's and they were barely, you know, go back eight years and, and almost, you know,
 There were no TNCs maybe 10 years ago. So it's really had a transformative effect, and we've obviously heard the positive and the negative effects. I do think that, you know, on balance, and when I supported this three years ago, there's been a lot of, you know, people like the flexibility of TNCs.
 And I think people, including myself, I respect taxis, and taxis are still my first mode of choice. In fact, I don't even have an agreement with TNCs. So it's taxis or walking for me when I need other transit. But I do think that the TNCs cater to a certain type of individual who really likes that. Either working for it, they like primarily part-time being able. I remember hearing from a lot of working...
 mothers when we were considering this three years ago, how much this meant for them to be able to supplement their family's income by working for Uber or Lyft. So there's just a lot of different perspectives people bring to this issue, and I respect all of them. And my job here is to try to sort through all this and make sure we have good policy that protects our customers and protects our residents and our visitors to our city. Thank you.
 And I think really everybody's meeting the mark of that. And I was really inspired by a lot of the pride the drivers showed in the video, but also here today about the pride they have sort of being the representative for the city of Portland to many people from out of town. And so anyway, I'm just very proud of everybody, and I'm pleased to support the resolution.
 Well, thank you to my colleagues and thank you to city staff. Even though this has only been three years, there's certainly a mountain of information and history to work through in order to gain a working understanding of where we're at today. All I'd like to add is that corporations do a great job looking out for their own interests and the interests of their investors.
 whether they are considered employees or independent contractors, have a right to organize and advocate for their rights. And it's our duty as elected representatives to look out for their rights as well as that of the public and as the safety of the environment. So I'll just say once again, if you enjoy things like
 Eight-hour workdays, 40-hour work weeks, which I'd like to add we don't. We're actually not protected by those kinds of laws. Sick pay, vacation, et cetera. Don't forget to thank a union, whether you're a member of one or not. Aye. Prince.
 It seems like yesterday and forever that was three years ago. And thank you to those of you who are back again, the many in here who were part of those discussions. And it seems like many of the both hopes and fears from three years ago have in fact been realized. There are many people who enjoy driving for TNCs, who find it for multiple reasons the best thing ever.
 And yet we have now heard from TNC drivers that they can't make a living and that the wages are subject to whatever Uber and Lyft decide. And you don't put your thumb down. I mean, that's what we heard today. I'm reflecting what I heard. So whether you agree with this or not, that is a fact that we heard that for some people this is not working out.
 We heard from taxi drivers that they would go out of business, and we've heard that some have. We heard that there would be more opportunity for more taxi permits, and there have. So I think that the jury is still out on who is really benefiting, and obviously one of my concerns is the city of Portland, a net winner or loser on the business taxes. That's a big part of our economy.
 I think in a true Portland fashion, the big winners are the pedicabs, because three years ago we kind of forgot about the pedicabs and the people-powered vehicles, and now we've got a big bus representative who's a prominent person on the board. So yay for that, and I'm glad that that's not being forgotten. Commissioner Fish, thank you for bringing the driver board proposal forward. I appreciate it.
 I wholeheartedly endorse it. Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for being willing to look at the insurance issue in particular again. And I'm glad that we're able to get that done while you're still in office. I hope we get to vote on it while you're still in office. It remains one of my big concerns. I would have to say I'm thankful that we haven't had a disaster here. We haven't had a bad crash. We haven't had, to my knowledge, an assault or a failure of a background track. And that is a good thing.
 and let's not continue to count on our luck, let's make sure that we don't. So that is, I'm glad we're taking another look at that because it certainly needs improvement. I'm disappointed that the wheelchair access vehicle program is not yet happening. That's a very long time, and so I'm glad that we've had the money come in
 I want to make sure that it's actually easier for people who use wheelchairs to choose the way they want to access that, and it's easier and rewarding for any driver who wants to provide that service to get that premium pay for providing that service. And so I know that that is shared by the Bureau of Transportation. Director Leotre, thank you for your diligent work on this the entire time, and I thank you for your service to the City of Portland and, of course, your team as well.
 Well, I tipped my hand right at the beginning of this conversation. I cannot outdo my colleagues in terms of their eloquence. I want to be sure I say this. I want to thank everybody who stuck it out for three and a half hours this afternoon and testified.
 There is a lot of great insight that people in this community have on all sides of this issue. The liability issue is very important. The insurance issue is very important. I think it's entirely appropriate
 and desirable for us to create this forum for the people who are engaged personally in this industry to be able to provide information and advise us on the path forward. We do this in a whole host of other contexts. I don't see any reason why this should be any different. I wholeheartedly support the resolution. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Please call item 520. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 I wanted to thank Matt Grum of my office and Tia Williams also, who was formerly on my staff for all their hard work, and as I already commented, the people at PBOT who do a great job every day. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you, everybody. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted, and we are adjourned. Thank you.