The Thursday afternoon, May 23rd, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Good afternoon, Carla. Can you please call the roll? Good afternoon. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. And now we're going to hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum. Good afternoon, Robert.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Thanks Robert. And just before we get going, a couple of housekeeping items. First of all, for those who are interested in the continuation of the budget discussion, we're going to have our deliberations and votes at time certain 3.30. And what that means is we will start no earlier than 3.30 this afternoon. And we're also going to formally move
 the items related to renter protections and security deposits. So Carla, if you could please read items 483 and 484, please. 483, add evaluation of applicants for dwelling units to include renter protections in the form of screening criteria regulations.
 and 484 add security deposits, prepaid rent, to include renter protections in the form of security deposit regulations. As discussed at the council meeting yesterday afternoon, Commissioner Udalli has requested to move items 483 and 484 to next week's agenda, and we thank her for that.
 We've discussed having the hearing on these two items in the evening next Wednesday. In order to do that procedurally, I offer the following.
 I move to suspend code section 3.02.010 that requires two weeks notice for an evening council session and that council meet at 6 p.m. next Wednesday, May 29th. Do I have a second? Second. We have a motion. Second for Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on this item? Just for clarification, this is instead of the Wednesday afternoon meeting rather than as well as, is that correct? That is correct.
 Please call the roll. We do have the one item at 2 p.m. the recycling garbage rates is still at 2 p.m. time certain. It was moved to then. Okay. But that's a fairly pro forma thing, right Carla? I think they won't ask for 30 minutes. Okay. Yeah, it shouldn't take longer than that. Thank you. Sorry. Please call the roll, Carla. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Allowing this vote was my very first thing I did when I got on the council.
 Wheeler. Aye. Thank you, everyone. The motion passes. Next up, Carla, could you please read items 481 and 482?
 481, amend the comprehensive plan map and the official zoning map to carry out the map amendments implementing the 82nd Avenue study, understanding barriers to development. And 482, adopt the recommendations contained within the 82nd Avenue plan. Colleagues, the 82nd Avenue is home to one of the most diverse populations in the entire Portland region.
 The census tracked around 82nd Avenue and Powell Boulevard is one of the most diverse in the entire state, including communities of color and low-income households that have been historically underserved and underrepresented.
 The 2035 Comprehensive Plan designates 82nd Avenue as a civic corridor. Both the 82nd Avenue study done by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, item 481, and the 82nd Avenue plan done by the Portland Bureau of Transportation, item 482,
 update our understanding of the 82nd Avenue as a civic corridor with the intent to improve 82nd Avenue so that this major corridor may become a vibrant urban place with key transportation connections. The 82nd Avenue study focuses on understanding challenges of and exploring opportunities for new development in the corridor as we consider potential transportation improvements.
 Near term, the 82nd Avenue study recommends technical map changes to employment zoning and the elimination of or modification to split zone sites to remove barriers to property uses and or redevelopment. Long term, the most significant barrier to development on 82nd Avenue is addressing the safety, access, and transit improvements all along the corridor.
 82nd Avenue is an important street in our city and the region and it's one that we need to focus on improving. It's a high crash corridor and one of the highest ridership TriMet bus lines as well.
 If we're to meet our transportation goals around Vision Zero safety and moving people in an equitable manner, then we need to improve safety, access, and transit along 82nd Avenue. This is necessary for improving conditions for people who walk, bike, and take transit. It's critical for addressing transportation justice, racial equity, and climate action.
 The recommendations in the 82nd Avenue Plan are intended to benefit these communities and in so doing meet the aggressive goals the City of Portland has set around equity. The types of improvements recommended in the plan will help address the disproportionate burden of traffic fatalities and serious injuries on people of color, low-income households, older adults and youth, people with disabilities and households with limited vehicle access.
 Additionally, the plan will help prepare 82nd Avenue as a candidate corridor currently under consideration for the T2020 Regional Transportation Investment Measure led by Metro. I hope to see the 82nd Avenue corridor become a prominent project funded in this measure by the Region's voters so that we can begin the transformation of 82nd Avenue into a civic corridor.
 Before I hand this over to Bureau staff, I understand there are three proposed technical amendments. I'd like to motion to revise the comprehensive plan map as depicted in Exhibit C and the official zoning map as depicted in Exhibit D.
 Commissioner Udailey seconds. Now I'll turn this over to Mary Stockton from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and April Bertelsen from the Bureau of Transportation to tell us more about this important work. And Commissioner Udailey, did you have any opening remarks? No, I'm going to be offering an amendment to the presentation. Very good, thank you. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here.
 Good afternoon. My name is Marty Stockton and I'm with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and I'm the project manager on the 82nd Avenue study, Understanding Barriers to Development. Before you today we have a recommended council action and that is to adopt the 82nd Avenue study map changes as well as accept the 82nd Avenue study, Understanding Barriers to Development as legislative history.
 REALLY QUICKLY ABOUT THE PROCESS. THIS IS A METRO FUNDED PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT GRANT. THE 82nd AVENUE STUDY WAS KICKED OFF IN THE FALL OF 2016 AND WAS COORDINATED WITH ODOT'S 82nd AVENUE OF THE ROSES IMPLEMENTATION PLAN. IN FACT, SO COORDINATED THAT THE ODOT COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE WAS SHARED BETWEEN BOTH EFFORTS.
 This was really, I would say, a bottom-up study as far as working with property and business owners, canvassing multiple segments of the 82nd Avenue corridor, as well as real estate brokers. Additionally, following up with adjacent neighborhood associations, business associations to receive input on 82nd.
 We did have consultants work on the 82nd Avenue study, specifically DECA architects worked on studying seven sites as kind of case studies. And then Leland Consulting worked on evaluation of employment land along the 82nd Avenue corridor. In 2018, we spent a lot of time taking drafts out to the public and just incorporating feedback.
 And then here we are in 2018 with some minor technical map change proposal. We had the Planning and Sustainability Commission hearing on March 12th of this year, and here we are at the council hearing. Again, this study area is the seven-mile corridor from northeast Killingsworth to the north down to the southern city limits, which is about Klotzup.
 It involves designated centers of Roseway, Montevilla, Jade District, and Lentz as our town center, as well as a number of focus areas. So the areas around Madison High School, the Mack Station, the area between Montevilla and Jade District, the area between Jade District and Lentz, and the area that we are calling South of Bybee.
 The goals of the study were to really update our understanding of 82nd Avenue as a recently designated civic corridor in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. It was to identify strategic locations for public action or interventions, as well as investment. And it was to understand barriers to development while managing equity and social issues.
 The findings of the study, and I really wanted to list findings of the study from the public's perspective, not necessarily from our consultants, but really from kind of the bottom-up work that we did. And in no particular order, it was what the community conveyed to us was...
 There is a lack of available capital, funding, and or development experience of property owners, business owners along 82nd. Not unanimously, but that was a general theme. Market conditions, 82nd is not quite ripe for redevelopment just yet. Development standards, we are addressing some of those today with some technical map changes, but...
 There's also concerns with non-conforming upgrades and not being able to include the cost of non-conforming upgrades when you are considering a development. So the non-conforming upgrades are just a little bit too much for some property owners.
 safety, connections, roadway and public realm improvements. And I would say that of all of these listed here, that is the number one issue that was conveyed to us was the condition of the road. And then finally a lot of folks that participated, just the ongoing theme of concerns around the increasing homeless population, a lack of services,
 And those, I would say, concerns were the full spectrum of humanitarian concerns to just frustrations with public safety and public cleanliness.
 So today we do have near-term actions that we're bringing forth to you. From the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, we have a refinement of some employment zoning, as well as the elimination or modification of some split zone sites. In total, we are proposing map changes to 28 acres along a seven-mile corridor. That is about...
 six or seven blocks. So that is not a large area of the 82nd Avenue corridor. And then we did conduct an economic and equity impact analysis specific to the properties where we have a proposed zone change. Portland Bureau of Transportation will be talking later in the presentation about the 82nd Avenue plan.
 So as I mentioned, of the 28 acres, about 75% of the proposed map changes have to do with employment zoning. And specifically, it is an area at the southern end of the corridor from southeast Bybee to southeast Lambert. And this is really to address, I would say, a mismatch between the current employment zone and just proposing a zone that is a better fit
 and also a zone that will lead to a more pedestrian friendly experience as properties redevelop over time. And specifically, there are 18 buildings that are currently non-conforming in this area that will be either become conforming or closer to conformance with this zone change.
 Regarding the split zone sites, we did an analysis of all the split zoned properties along the 82nd Avenue corridor as shown with this particular map with the images outlined in red. Marty, for those who are either new to our work or at home, could you just take a moment? I'm happy to. You beat me to my second talking point on this slide. A split zone site is a site where there is two or more zoning designations located.
 So a classic example would be a portion of the property is zoned for commercial, whereas the back portion of it is zoned residential. So that would be a split zone site. Thank you. Okay. We are proposing to move forward with eliminating or modifying the nature of 16 split zone sites along the corridor. You had a question? Commissioner Hardesty. Please. Oh. It's on you. It's on me. Move. Okay.
 Thank you. I had a question about how many residential zones are we gonna lose if we make this change?
 So we are, there are two of, excuse me, three properties that have residential zoning on them. A classic example is the former DMV property, which is across from Madison High School. The back portion of that property, which is a surface parking lot, is zoned R5. So that's the type of property.
 map changes that we're correcting. So the surface parking lot on the former DMV site is zoned residential and we're proposing for that whole site to go to commercial.
 And is our homes allowed in commercial zones? Pardon? Our residential units allowed in commercial zones? Yes, all of our commercial zones in the city of Portland allow housing outright, which is a wonderful thing. So, in fact, it would allow more housing units? Correct. Are you going to get to how many more? No, we're not going to get to that today. Okay. Yeah.
 I would be interested at some point to have an estimate. Obviously, with the commercial zones, you don't know, but there is capacity for a lot more. And it would be interesting to know what effect this has on our projections for the capacity, the zoned capacity. I'd be happy to follow up with you. Thank you. Did that cover that question? Yes, thank you. Okay. For the moment, I think. Okay.
 So we did conduct an economic analysis on, again, the areas that we're proposing map changes, as well as just reflecting on some of the recent change to employment in the 2035 comprehensive plan. And with this slide, I just would like to note, actually, the two bar graphs to the right. So the employment zone citywide, you'll see that,
 25% is used in the industrial sector, whereas 42% typically is in office. And then 28% is in retail, and there's 5% that's in health and education. The employment zones along 82nd have a different sector spread. So 44% is in industrial uses, and
 whereas 43% is in retail, and then only 10% is in office. So that's just something that it's a finding. It's interesting information in the study. I think it's something that it would be interesting to follow up on. We would like to see more office sector jobs on 82nd, but what we're proposing today does not affect that at all.
 As far as the equity impact analysis, we did look at the demographics in the study area and specifically just want to call out that there are 36% people of color compared to 29% citywide households with people of color. And then interestingly, 60% homeowner households compared to 53% citywide households.
 And then it is important to note that 49% low-income households compared to 44% citywide. In some recent analysis that we did in the residential infill project, it's really important to note that the neighborhoods of Cully, Montevilla, Brentwood-Darlington, and Lentz are all areas that we are concerned about for risk of displacement. And those are all neighborhoods that are along the 82nd Avenue corridor.
 Specific to business impact and that was something that the Planning and Sustainability charged us to look at specifically with relation to the map changes. 17 businesses where we're proposing a map change have been in a location for over 15 years whereas 15 have been in location less than five years.
 And then of note, any demographic breakdown on the businesses that currently exist? No. And we struggled with that. And this is something that I actually would like for there to be further work in looking at commercial displacement and the anti-displacement strategy that I believe is moving forward in the budget process. We don't have a lot of good tools when it comes to commercial displacement.
 RIGHT NOW. AND SPECIFICALLY WITH THE DEMOGRAPHICS YOU WOULD HAVE TO GO AND DO A BUSINESS TO BUSINESS KNOCKING ON DOORS TO GET THAT INFORMATION. WE DON'T HAVE, WE CAN'T USE CENSUS TRACKS TO GET THAT INFORMATION FOR BUSINESS DEMOGRAPHICS. AND THEN LASTLY, AND I THINK THIS IS A REALLY IMPORTANT POINT, OF THE COMMERCIAL EMPLOYMENT PROPERTY OWNERSHIP, 50% OF THE PARCELS HAVE BEEN IN THE SAME OWNERSHIP FOR 30 PLUS YEARS.
 And why this is important is that we are at, I would say, the brink of a generational change. So when properties are in ownership for 30 years, properties will either be handed down to someone within the family or they will be sold. And so that is kind of an important thing to note. Thank you.
 Council testimony requests. We sent out public notice to over 700 properties as well as occupants, and we have three items of testimony that we are, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is in support of these requests, and the mayor earlier made a motion for these technical amendments to be added and considered.
 Specifically here, just really quickly, a property on Southeast Henderson, a property on Southeast Malden Court, and the northwest corner of 83rd and Flavelle are the three properties. I'd be happy to follow up with any of the commission offices separately with questions on these. That is the end of my portion of the presentation. I will hand it off to April Berteson at this point. Very good. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Thank you. Pardon while we switch presentations. One moment. Again, my name is April Bertolson with the Portland Bureau of Transportation and it is my honor and distinct joy to present to you today about 82nd Avenue and recommend adoption of the 82nd Avenue plan per the resolution before you.
 I wanted to provide a little bit more context and background of what brought us to develop this plan. It really grows from what we heard from the community and what they see as the needs are for along 82nd Avenue, as well as in support of our policies.
 And we have developed this plan based on some of the findings that we had from the study led by Bureau of Planning and Sustainability of understanding barriers because as we realize, 82nd itself can be a barrier. And so what can we do to help address that?
 And this being an incremental plan, a first step, if you will, something that we could pull together also quickly with the information that we have and what we have heard. But we know that there is more needs for 82nd Avenue beyond this plan. But we think we need to get started and started now.
 We are building off of a planning process both from BPS, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, but also from a process led by ODOT. They completed a plan for 82nd Avenue, the avenue of the roses implementation plan here late last year in January 2018. And we see this as building off of that and adding to it. So both in support of the improvements they've identified, but then also identifying more
 Additionally, we really see this as an opportune time to have this plan given the region is currently deliberating transportation investment measure. This can be an input into that process for identifying a project on 82nd Avenue.
 So the key elements of this plan, two parts. One, focusing on safety access and transit improvements along 82nd Avenue that could be capital public improvement projects. The second aspect of that, of the plan, is to recommend changes to PBOT's right of way dedication requirements along 82nd Avenue to provide wider sidewalk corridors.
 And this would be this would occur incrementally as redevelopment occurs through the building permit process a little more about that later So what you could see here is both? Public coming to the table of how can we invest in 82nd Avenue? but also how can the properties along 82nd also contribute to the transformation of 82nd and an improvement and
 82nd Avenue is becoming a civic corridor and so we want this plan to be in support of that designation and vision and our comprehensive plan.
 But there are ways in which 82nd does not yet meet our vision for a civic corridor. While it does, it is busy and it is already a prominent street that is connecting centers and to places across the region and moving many people and goods, it is, it does have barriers and we need to address those.
 One of those barriers is safety along 82nd Avenue. It is a high-crash corridor, as was mentioned earlier, and if we are going to address our Vision Zero goals, we need to increase safety on 82nd Avenue and take a role in that. It is in our top 30 high-crash streets within the city.
 And since 2007, 16 people have died on 82nd Avenue. And many of them, a majority, were pedestrians. And so if we are going to change the tide and turn that curve to a Vision Zero, we must act. Thank you.
 Additionally, there are narrow sidewalks, great distances between crossings, and also transit that is delayed and often slow along 82nd. So looking at multiple things we can do to improve. 82nd is also an older street. It used to be the edge of our city and now it's the middle.
 of our city. But it has aging infrastructure that often does not meet current standards. This map here highlights the paving condition and it is poor, many segments of 82nd within our city.
 I will highlight that the city and state are making investments in 82nd Avenue, including paving and some of those poor segments. And Mandy from ODOT may be able to speak more to that. But I want to acknowledge that there are investments in 82nd Avenue, nearly $40 million, and paving and signals and ADA corners and some crossings and sidewalks.
 Can I ask you a question about this slide? Yes. Maybe it's just me, but I can't read anything on this slide. So just in terms of categories, all the green boxes on the left, do those represent transportation-related investment? Yes.
 The green is those which were previous investments, transportation investments, sidewalks, crossing signals. So limited to transportation? Yes. Limited to the physical infrastructure transportation? Yes. And the orange? The orange is upcoming ones that are funded and coming forth. And Marty, is it your intent at some point to do a supplemental overlay on other kinds of investments that are planned for 82nd?
 Since I spend a lot of time out there, it obviously is tree deficient. So what's our strategy for planting trees, creating a softer landscape, bioswales, all those kinds of things. So that's a BES parks issue. To what extent are we adding pocket parks, public spaces, other kinds of things along the way?
 Is there an opportunity at some point to look more holistically at the investment, community gardens, other kinds of things, so we see what all the public investment is? Yes, I think there's been also an interest to show that visually. So somewhat similar to this slide, but in a way that it could be a web-based where folks could really see.
 all the different ways that there are public investments, whether it's parks or Bureau of Environmental Services or transportation or Prosper Portland, that there would be a visual way to see it and click on it and learn about various investments. And let me just be clear about my interest.
 When we zero in on where PBOT, ODOT, others are making significant investments, it could change the sequencing of some of our investments. So, I mean, if there's a big transit stop and we can put a bioswale, some trees, and some other things to make it shaded and much more attractive for people, we'd want to be part of that. So we'd want to match up some of our investments along with the transportation investments. So, yeah.
 I love the interactive idea, but I also would settle for, at some point, a document that integrates some of the planned investments. Thank you. That's wonderful.
 So as I said, nearly 40 million invested at this point, but the need is greater and beyond. And so this plan is in part about identifying some of those improvements to address the needs. If I may. So could you go back please to the last slide? You said nearly 40 million in investments. And is there a breakdown? I mean, what's the amount that is in the planning stages that are in the process?
 as compared to what's been done however long ago that was done? I don't immediately have that breakdown, but I will see about getting that for you.
 I think that's important because I think as Commissioner Fish said, I guess my concern is that all these things are happening in isolation of everything else. And I certainly live on a street that gets tore up quite a bit because one government entity is doing X, and then two months later, another government entity comes in and does Y. And then three months later, another government comes in and does something else. So...
 it's very disruptive to the community that's already pretty disruptive because of the poor infrastructure. So it really would be helpful to know that we're planning in a way that's only disruptive once.
 That is good feedback but I will also find out what of the investments are still the upcoming ones from that. There is certainly one I can highlight and that is the paving project that ODOT will be conducting from Foster south to Lindy beyond the city's limits but it includes to Clatsop at the city.
 And that will include corner ramp rebuilds, I think some sidewalk and some crossings. And Mandy may be able to speak more to that and the coordination opportunities. We're certainly looking at how do we coordinate also our crossing investments in that same segment. So the need to do more really to support Vision Zero livability and help people connect to economic opportunity.
 We wanted to respond to these needs as well as the advocacy from the community for the transformation of 82nd Avenue and growing advocacy for jurisdictional transfer to help support that and achieve a street more in their vision.
 We have begun conversations with ODOT about a pathway towards jurisdictional transfer. That includes a letter together when we met with state legislators from July of 2018 that is a joint PBOT meeting.
 an ODOT letter. In addition, we just recently signed a memorandum of understanding to lay out a work plan for stepping towards jurisdictional transfer and reaching shared understanding agreement on the costs associated with that. I have copies of that memorandum of understanding if you'd like. It is also attached as Exhibit B to our resolution.
 And so we will continue to work with them on the elements of that work plan and seek funding for improvements in this plan and beyond as well as the date addressing state of good repair to address deferred maintenance And also seeking design flexibility as we build things until jurisdictional transfer Can I ask you just a philosophical question because I think it comes up with a lot of people that instinctively like the idea of jurisdictional transfer and
 like the idea of having the city be primarily responsible for the road,
 but are concerned about what's the liability that attaches and is it the equivalent of someone coming and saying, I've got a brownfield for you, would you like to take it over? And I say, sure, that'd be wonderful. And then what you've got is a long-term liability. And this comes up a lot obviously in the parks and natural area context where we're offered spaces that frankly we have to think twice about because we don't have the funds to maintain them.
 So can you just tell me as succinctly as possible, I think I understand the benefit side of the equation of jurisdictional transfer, but how do we ensure that we don't get stuck with the tab on the other side of the ledger? Thank you, we share this,
 concern and sensitivity. And so part of this is working with our engineers and staff within PBOT as well as with ODOT, their staff and their engineers to understand the state of the assets from the paving to the signals to the drainage system below and working to come to a shared agreement on what that state is and what the cost would be to bring it to a state of good repair.
 and how we might share in the cost for that. And what, how we, that being an important step in moving towards a jurisdictional transfer. And so we're at that point now of trying to come to a shared agreement and a shared understanding of what's a state. So let me try to put it in terms that may be less polite than you just said. As part of any negotiation, we'd make sure that we don't let them off the hook for their share of responsibility.
 And that is, I think, an important message for us to be carrying forth as we talk with the State. I think you're going to hear from the Council it's an important precondition to any jurisdictional transfer that we're not just taking on liability and responsibility. We are proud of, you know, PBOT and its track record of doing work.
 work in that community, but there has to be a cost-sharing agreement so that it doesn't come at the cost of just shifting the burden to Portland taxpayers. We do agree. We also have plenty of streets to maintain already, and if we are going to have more, we do need funding to both support that maintenance as well as making improvements to meet the vision. Thank you very much. Yes, thank you. And there are different means for achieving that.
 both at one time as well as ongoing maintenance needs. Commissioner Hurst, you've got the floor. Sorry to keep interrupting, but trying to understand this a lot better. What does the MOU commit us to at the moment? It commits us to work together. It really lays out steps to help reach shared understanding of the costs and agreements on how much they cost and
 what funding, as well as the cost of basic safety improvements. I would be happy to share a copy of this so that you would like to review it and let us know if you have more questions. But it's really, that is fundamentally, it's the commitment to work together to answer these questions and bring those back in preparation. For the city council to deliberate on that after you've answered those questions or is this something you're going to just go off and do? No.
 I may look to my leadership. I do believe we will return to city council. Yes. They're shaking their head up and down. Okay. It's on camera, so we can freeze it there. And I'll just say, as the commissioner in charge, I have no interest in taking on anyone else's liability, considering we have $3.2 billion of our own in deferred maintenance.
 And I'm also concerned with ongoing maintenance costs once it's brought up to... As am I. Yeah. And there'll be some fun conversations about that. Yes, yes. TBD. Yes, to continue. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. In the interest of time, I'm going to try to move along a little more quickly through the remaining slides here so we can hear from others.
 So just really briefly, the chapter on safety access and transit improvements identifies improvements about the corridor with input from our traffic engineers and primarily includes more enhanced pedestrian bicycle crossings which would include marked crosswalks and treatments to pedestrian activated treatments. Increased lighting, signal changes to reduce conflicts particularly with pedestrians but other conflicts too.
 strategic sidewalk widening in spots, and hopefully lowering speeds, and then some enhanced transit priority treatments to improve the speed of bus reliability and capacity.
 The other key element that I had highlighted is proposed changes to our right-of-way dedication requirements along 82nd Avenue, and I like to highlight this photo of outside PCC campus which has a wonderful sidewalk corridor and frontage.
 But today most of 82nd Avenue, the sidewalks range between 5 feet and 15 feet depending on where redevelopment has occurred. So many of the sidewalks are narrow and do not meet our current city standards. And that can create a very tight and uncomfortable pedestrian environment which has barriers to many people with mobility devices. What would the standard be for 82nd Avenue? I will get to that in the next slide.
 So, but in addition, so the right of way generally five lane cross section and then roughly 72 feet of right of way. But then there is also a special setback that is in place along 82nd Avenue that was adopted by ordinance decades ago and is now implemented through the zoning code special setbacks.
 And that requires 45 feet from center line for a total if you would 90 feet width between buildings so buildings today Are not allowed to be Built within that 45 feet from center line some buildings exist there today. They may predate this but and new buildings would be required to build on their property outside of that setback and
 Our current sidewalk standards, as redevelopment occurs, we request that development build 15 foot wide sidewalk corridors within pedestrian districts. There are two on 82nd Avenue. And otherwise a 12 foot sidewalk corridor that's made up of these zones that you'll see here. The furnishing zone where we would locate the trees typically, clear through pedestrian zone and then a frontage zone.
 The two pedestrian districts that are in our transportation system plan today are the Montevilla Pedestrian district around Stark in Washington and the 86 2nd Avenue Mack station area so the proposal is to increase our dedication requirements to Be the same as this 45 feet from center line special setback
 But instead of it being a setback on private property, it become a right-of-way dedication. So the same as the 45 from Centerline or a minimum of 12 feet or 15 feet in pedestrian districts, whichever is greater. So that we ensure that we at least have the 90 feet wide. But in those places where it's already wider, the curb is wider, we at least get a minimum of 12 feet sidewalk or 15 in pedestrian districts.
 And as a part of this we mapped the entire corridor along 82nd Avenue to estimate based on our mapping resources what would that change in dedication mean for if they came in today under current standards or under the future. And so we've done that assessment. Here's an example of one of those maps and here's an example zooming into an individual property where.
 And they have a narrow sidewalk today. If they were to come in today we would require roughly eight feet. These are our estimations. But under the new requirement it would be an additional roughly a foot dedication which would put roughly where the front of the building is today. And then others could have more or less increased dedication. And there are some properties that already meet it today.
 And here's an example of one that does meet it. This is McDonald's, 82nd and Stark, where they have dedicated and they are meeting a 15-foot sidewalk corridor. And so we want to see more of this in the future, which provides ample room for people moving as well as street trees and bus stop and shelters.
 And with that, I will, in my presentation, recommend adoption of these recommendations contained within the 82nd Avenue Plan. Ed? I'm there. Commissioner Udalli, go ahead. I just want to confirm, we read this as a package, right? So this amendment will be on 482, the resolution. I'd like to propose an amendment before we take public testimony so we can hear testimony on the full package.
 Here is the language. Be it further resolved that PBOT staff is directed to pursue more transformational strategies along 82nd Avenue to improve transit reliability, speed and capacity for the people who currently ride bus line 72, and to increase ridership. This includes developing and evaluating design concepts
 with more transit priority treatments from the PBOT enhanced transit toolbox, such as business access and transit lanes in partnership with TriMet, Metro, and ODOT. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Eudaly, a second from Commissioner Fritz. That amendment's on the table. And I'll just add that since being assigned PBOT last fall, I've been pretty aggressive in my direction with the Bureau to prioritize transit
 transit improvements including getting buses out of traffic as soon as possible and We are currently working on a red lane project that will create a pilot for bus priority lanes across the city But while we are still in development on that large project I'd be remiss to miss an opportunity to include it in every transportation plan. We bring before council. Thank you Commissioner fish so Marty I just have one last question I
 When I came to Oregon, came to Portland, if you were on Sandy Boulevard west of 42nd, there are a lot of auto dealerships. Today those auto dealerships have been largely repurposed into creative space and redevelopment and there's other development going in. One of the features of 82nd is there are a lot of auto dealerships.
 If you were to put your sort of crystal ball, if you were to look into your crystal ball and anticipate what are some of the short-term and medium-term effects of some of the changes that we're contemplating and the kind of street we want that's more livable, what will happen to the high concentration of auto dealership-related businesses? Yes.
 Those of us in the Planning Bureau are very aware of the concentration of auto dealerships along 82nd. In the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, there was a map change that was proposed in the Montevilla Neighborhood Association along 82nd between Alder and Mill, which still allows for auto dealerships to be a use outright, but it requires...
 over time as properties redevelop.
 for the surface parking lots to be, so it's essentially the exterior display is no longer allowed. So a dealership can be there, but it has to be the display of vehicles has to be within a building. So a good example on Sandy Boulevard of that is the former Timberline Dodge building. So that was a change that was made to Sandy Boulevard decades ago, and that was the first,
 I would say kind of evolution of Sandy was that the exterior Display of vehicles had to be put inside a building So we made that change in Montevilla and we are also making it today at the southern end of 82nd again in the Brentwood Darlington and Lentz area between by the and Lambert where that four block area again
 Again, auto dealerships are still allowed. They're allowed use. But as properties redevelop over time, we do have the expectation that the exterior display of vehicles will no longer occur because it is prohibited by the zone that we are proposing. Okay.
 Thank you. Colleagues, in the interest of time, because we are running way over at this point, we still have 30 minutes of invited testimony. I'm going to ask that we not have more questions unless there's something really urgent. Without objection. All right. Very good. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Did you get the list? Sure. We have invited testimony. Mandy Putney from ODOT.
 Kerry Ayers-Pelenuk from TriMet, the Director of Planning and Policy. Bob Stacey, Metro Councilor.
 are the first three and then we have Brian Wong from the 82nd Avenue Improvement Coalition, John Mulvey from the 82nd Avenue CAC and East Portland Action Plan member, Todd Struble from APANO in the Jade District, and Orlando Lopez from OPAL, the Bus Riders Union. I don't know if you all want to come up or just come up a few at a time, however you'd like to do your presentation, but you're all invited testimony. We only ask that you provide your name for the record.
 You get the government folks out of the way first. Very good. Come on out. It's good to see you. Thanks for being here. Let's go from major government first. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for inviting me to provide comments today. My name is Mandy Putney. I'm ODOT's Region 1 Policy and Development Manager, and I've been working closely with PBOT staff on the MOU and conversations about the future of 82nd.
 There have been years of collaboration between ODOT and the City on operations and investments on 82nd. Working in coordination with PBOT over the past decade, more than $35 million has been invested along 82nd Avenue. And currently we have about $14 million of additional investments planned and programmed that are either underway currently or those dollars are allocated and programmed.
 We also have another $6.5 million in safety improvements for the section of 82nd in Portland that are being proposed for investment in the 21-24 statewide strategic investment plan. When 82nd Avenue opened in the 1930s, it functioned as the only north-south highway in the area until I-205 opened in 1983.
 82nd Avenue now functions as a multimodal community corridor. It serves local trips connecting people to the community and the statewide and regional trips and that travel has shifted to the interstate. Under ODOT ownership which is curb to curb for most of 82nd, current design of the roadway is guided by federal and state requirements that are not always the best match to community needs.
 ODOT shares the city's and the community's goal of safety and connectivity along the facility. There's also a shared understanding that city management of this road will produce the outcomes most desired by the community. ODOT fully supports the process described in the MOU before you today to develop the terms of a future jurisdictional transfer. ODOT and PBOT staff have been diligently working together on the steps outlined in the MOU.
 We thank the City for your continued partnership and are eager to continue to make progress on developing this jurisdictional transfer agreement. Thank you. Thank you. Your Honor, Commissioners, Bob Stacey, Metro Councilor for Metro Council District 6, which is most of southeast and southwest Portland.
 including the neighborhoods on either side of 82nd Avenue from the light rail station at the Banfield Freeway down to Cartopia on Johnson Creek Boulevard. I'm here on behalf of the Metro Council to testify in support of both these measures before you. 82nd Avenue, as everyone has acknowledged, is a vital corridor, a hub for our region, and home to an ever-growing and changing population.
 The planning and transportation studies and plan before you today take important steps toward, among other things, improving pedestrian safety and other elements of 82nd Avenue. Pedestrian safety in particular is a key concern for the 14,000 daily riders on TriMet's 82nd Avenue bus line, the highest ridership of any bus line in TriMet's system and higher than some of the light rail lines at the current point.
 As you act on the plan and study before you today, I encourage you to consider even bolder action, and I'm pleased to hear Commissioner Udaly's proposed amendment. As you know, Metro is working with the city, again thanks Commissioner Udaly, other regional partners, and community leaders outside of government on a 2020 transportation investment measure for the region as a whole.
 A task force on which Commissioner Udailey serves has an emerging list of top priority investment projects for a regional transportation measure and 82nd Avenue is on everyone's top five list around the region. It's a corridor that meets the values and can meet the values better that the Metro Council has established for inclusion in this measure. Safety. Mobility.
 equity, accessibility, affordability, and greenhouse gas reduction from the transportation sector. With the potential for regional funds available in the future to support transformational ideas, we have a chance to make a bold move for dedicated transit lanes on 82nd Avenue. The ridership today is remarkable.
 It could be even greater with such improvements. And we're hearing very strongly from the community that we need bold action on climate, on the greenhouse gases that come from transportation. Dedicating a transit lane on 82nd Avenue as the city is now doing on Southwest Madison is an important way of achieving those greenhouse gas reduction targets.
 This kind of investment would also mean better outcomes for safety, mobility, and equity, which our region has prioritized for any transportation measure. And let me close with an observation that is often made by Christian Koehler, who's the metropolitan area economist for the Oregon Department of Employment. When he talks about poverty and inequity in our economy,
 He points out that if you divide Multnomah County along 82nd Avenue, that the county west of 82nd Avenue is Oregon's wealthiest and Multnomah County east of 82nd Avenue is Oregon's poorest. That is a remarkable observation and it suggests that 82nd Avenue is more than a civic corridor, more than a transit route. It is a barometer for the future of our city and how we deal with this part of our city.
 both in transportation and in equity, and how we avoid displacement as we make significant transportation investments, how we learn, as the city and TriMet and Metro did in the Division Transit Corridor Project, and as we're learning on the Southwest Corridor Project, to invest in housing and other opportunities ahead of the displacement effect of gentrification. I encourage you to think boldly and take us up
 on the regional offer of support for this important corridor. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Carrie Ayers Palahniuk. I'm the Director of Planning and Policy with TriMet. TriMet would like to show our support for the 82nd Avenue Plan and its focus on improving safety and removing transportation barriers. We believe that capital efforts to make transit more attractive and get people through delay and congestion can help achieve these goals.
 TriMet serves, as you've heard, 82nd Avenue with the frequent service line 72. It's our highest ridership of any TriMet bus line with over 14,000 daily boardings. Sorry. That's okay. We run almost 22 hours a day. We provide 223 trips a day with an average time between buses of 11 minutes during the entire day. But at the busiest time of the day, we run as frequently as every five minutes.
 With these levels of frequent service provided on 82nd Avenue, even small improvements in bus priority can make a large difference in the lives of so many people that use our bus. With the work that we have been doing with the City of Portland Metro, we also know that there is significant delay for buses between 82nd Avenue MAX station to the north and Southeast Flavelle to the south.
 This means that it takes longer for a worker to get to their job or a single parent to pick up children at childcare than it did just a few years ago.
 We believe that this plan is a great start toward building an improved corridor that moves buses and therefore more people quicker, safer, and more conveniently. Capital improvements within the right-of-way that would help achieve these goals that you've already heard about for transit include queue jump lanes, transit signal priority, and bus only or business access and transit lanes. Thank you.
 While many of these improvements can occur in the near future, we also look forward to further into the future when changes outside the existing street right-of-way include wider sidewalks, ensuring ADA accessibility to, from, and at all of our bus stops. I applaud the work that PBOT and TriMet staff are doing together to move people through and around congestion.
 The 82nd Avenue plan that we are focused on today is a great opportunity to further this work for transit riders. But I also would like to give a shout out to the new bus and bike only lane on Southwest Madison just outside here.
 which helps our buses and riders reach the Hawthorne Bridge, and look forward to the next transit improvements for Burnside and Everett Streets as well. Improvements on these three streets will help speed travel out of downtown for over 11,000 riders per day on 13 bus lines. As we all know and can appreciate, reallocating roadway space is a tough task.
 TriMet commends your efforts in this area to date, and we greatly value our partnership in improving transit service throughout our service all around the region. Thank you. Thank you. We thank our agency partners for being here today, and thanks for all your great work on this over a period of many, many years. Can I just make one small comment? I didn't know we had any bus lines that ran every five minutes at any time of day. That's brilliant. Thank you very much.
 Commissioner Hardesty. I thank you. I I've lost my tri-med person. I was hoping to find out if we're gonna get the Clean buses on 80 seconds since we tend to use most of we have a lot more traffic So I would love to know when we can expect that those new buses that are energy improved to be riding up and down on 82nd and
 Very good and we do have our community partners here as well. Before I call you up, there was a chance that Representative Kenny Geyer and Senator Dembrow were going to be here. I don't see them but I just want to confirm that. They did send written testimony and they've been very supportive and very active in this proposal but of course they're also in Salem during the legislative session. So I don't see them here today but they wanted
 to be here. So Brian Wong, John Mulvey, Todd Struble and Orlando Lopez, come on up. Thank you for representing our community panel. Well, people settle in. I want to let you know that I heard from Orlando Lopez with Opal and Bus Riders Union. He's unable to attend, but he did submit written testimony to the council clerk and shared with me. So I will want to make sure we get that to you, but he strongly supports the plan.
 Very good. It's my understanding in addition to Representative Kenny Geyer and Senator Dembrow, we also received a letter of support from Representative Reardon, the Brentwood Darlington Neighborhood Association, the Southeast Inactive Motion, otherwise known as SEAM, and a number of others as well. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for having us here.
 I'm Brian Wong. I'm with the 82nd Avenue Improvement Coalition and I thank you for having us here. I'd also like to thank Chloe Udailey for your letter of support for House Bill 2846, a safe community highways for all. Thank you. The 82nd Avenue Improvement Coalition is a grassroots organization advocating for a safer street in our neighborhood, in our community. And we are here today to ask you that you adopt the 82nd Avenue plan today.
 We want to work with you to make 82nd Avenue a street and a safe place to be. 82nd Avenue, as you know, is a complex environment. It's designed to be a highway, but attempting to function as the region's main street. Sadly, it is currently and simply just a high crash corridor, and we seek to change that. It carries the distinguished honor of being one of the top crash streets in the city of Portland for pedestrians, bicyclists, and motor vehicles. We want to change that.
 We need to change that dangerous and deadly reality. In the letter of support sent to you by our state legislators, Representative Lisa Kinnegar and Jeff Bearden and Senator Michael Dembrow, speaks to those dangers and notes that on February 24th of this year, a Madison High School student was struck by a car on 82nd Avenue and critically injured.
 We need to make 82nd Avenue safer. The plan helps transform 82nd Avenue with more pedestrian activated crossings placed closer together, wider sidewalks, modifying zoning to encourage human scale development, the option to reduce speed, and considerations for enhanced transit, which are all necessary if we want to put in parks and other public investments along the corridor. If we want to put those features in place, we also need to begin the process of transferring 82nd Avenue
 OF THE ROAD FROM OREGON DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ODOT TO THE CITY OF PORTLAND. ODOT HAS A VAST INVENTORY OF HIGHWAYS AND 82nd AMNU IS ONE OF THOSE HIGHWAYS. THE INVENTORY OF HIGHWAYS IS VIEWED AS A SYSTEM. EACH SEPARATE HIGHWAY CONNECTING ONE HIGHWAY TO ANOTHER. OVER TIME AS NEW HIGHWAYS ARE ADDED LIKE I-205, SOME EXISTING HIGHWAYS ARE NO LONGER SERVING A STATE WAVE FUNCTION AND ARE DEPRIORITIZED AND ARE NOT MAINTAINED AND ARE NOT COLLECTED.
 82nd Avenue has been neglected for many years and suffers from a backlog of deferred maintenance and basic safety improvements. Now is the opportune time to absolve that backlog. ODOT, of course, needs to continue to perform due diligence and continue to contribute the funds necessary to address the deferred maintenance and bring 82nd Avenue up to a state of good repair.
 Then additional funding from the 2020 regional investment measure can be allocated to transform 82nd Avenue into a city street, a safe, walkable place that is better served by transit. We need to change 82nd Avenue, and we ask that you vote to adopt the 82nd Avenue plan. The time to transform 82nd Avenue is now, and I thank you for your time. Thank you. We appreciate your being here. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for the chance to talk to you today about 82nd Avenue. My name is John Mulvey. I'm co-chair of the Housing Committee of the East Portland Action Plan. I spent five years as communications chair for the 82nd Avenue Improvement Coalition, and I was a member of the ODOT Community Advisory Committee that drafted their plan
 so-called plan for 82nd Avenue. We talk a lot about community. Well, 82nd Avenue is mine. It may not be beautiful, but it's mine. I love the people who scramble across this street every single day, and I want to protect them. Their safety and their ability to live their lives is my number one priority.
 The plans that you're considering today are great steps forward and I want to express my appreciation to the staff who worked on them, particularly Marty Stockton and April Bertelsen who have been champions for this area. But you're not considering the plan for 82nd. You're considering some incremental changes that are very positive and good and I hope you'll support them.
 but we need to do more for that community.
 So I'll end my comments there, but I did wanna just flag one segment, one section of both of these plans. As you know, the current comp plan makes it the city's policy that displacement mitigation be part of any conversation where, quote, plans and investments are expected to create neighborhood change.
 And that certainly applies to the changes that are taking place on 82nd Avenue. I'll just read one small bullet point that is part of the anticipated future steps in the BPS plan, and the PBOT plan has similar language there.
 develop a corridor-wide residential growth strategy that identifies residential development opportunities, supports housing stabilization at all income levels, and recommends programs and policies to minimize displacement of low-income community members that may result from investment and redevelopment.
 So I wanted to flag that for you because as we go forward, I'm personally very committed to a safer street. And I've been working on that cause for many, many years. But if I thought that it would adversely impact our communities in the corridor, I would oppose even fixing a pothole.
 So those two goals have to happen in tandem. And I know you agree. Forgive me for reminding you about it again. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Todd Struble, and I'm the Director of Community Development at APANO.
 I wanted to I wanted to speak in support of adopting these plans We do think they're positive steps towards improving the street on 82nd But I think I wanted to use my time to kind of talk to the the question about jurisdictional transfer and why we've been banging that drum for so long. I think we appreciate the cost that it will take to bring this street up to good repair and
 I think I've been part of the organization and the coalition of many community folks have been doing that outreach I personally gathered surveys for many of the plans that ODOT and PBOT have worked on And we're supportive of the work. They've been engaged with us and we appreciate that.
 But I think in terms of the liability, I think the reason that we've been banging this drum for so long is because the status quo isn't working for us. The experience of folks walking across the street, whether Madison High School students or new residents at the Orchards of 82nd, the children that are living there.
 The idea is that there's a current cost on the liability side of the ledger here today. And so we just wanted to bring that and say we kind of appreciate that it's going to cost a lot and it's going to probably hurt, but I think that for the folks that are living there and using this as a transit corridor, as a business corridor, they'd probably be
 don't care who's responsible for the repair of the street. They just want it fixed. They just want it to feel safer and be available for them to use as an amenity and supporting their daily lives. So I would just try to ask and I don't envy you the task of sitting on that side of the table when it comes to having these discussions. I suspect it will be a compromise that makes everybody feel not so great.
 But all I can promise is that, you know, when those discussions happen, you will have community support for making those investments and working with your agency partners to make this a reality for the folks that live there. Thank you. Very good. Todd, and thank you for the great definition of compromise. I think that pretty much hit the nail on the head. Thank you. We appreciate it.
 So unless I'm mistaken that completes our invited testimony. We'll now open it up to public testimony unless colleagues, if you have any questions before we begin that. Carla, how many individuals do we have signed up for public testimony? For both items we have 15. Very good, two minutes each please. Name for the record, please call the first three. Okay, we'll start with 41. The first two were Richard and Diana Davis and then we'll go with Terry Parker. Very good.
 We have some exhibits for you. Okay, thank you. Any handouts or anything, just give them to Carla, our council clerk, and she'll get them up to us. Ma'am, why don't you start? I was going to start. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. My name is Richard Davis. This is my wife, Diana Davis. We're the owner of two duplexes on the corner of Favell and 83rd. And so we're generally in support of improvements on 82nd.
 One thing about the plan, if you saw some of the maps, maybe you missed it, there was a map that was drawn right on Favell and the entire block on 83rd is covered by the changes except for our property and our neighbors. And
 In our view, that that creates a barrier to development. And I have, I formed that belief for several reasons. One, in my former life, I was a commissioner in a small city where we took a road that was very similar to 82nd. It was a county road that was supplanted by a major freeway. We had to figure out what do we do with this road?
 And the major barrier as we took hearings and testimony was mixed zoning. And so when you have a street, a single street, you have mixed zoning, you get developers that do not want to develop in that area. And so that is what's happened here and we're going to ask that you add our properties, the 7443, 7449, and the neighbor, the adjoining property, to make the entire street one.
 I'm also informed by my other experiences. So in my other daytime job, I'm a magistrate on the Oregon Tax Court. I take a lot of testimony about the value of real property and I can tell you the developers consider mixed use, mixed zoning as one of the impediments to investment. Thank you. And I think my wife has, thank you, very brief. I want to explain the
 Exhibit you just received so the white one I printed the paper on the white one was printed out from your website That is currently being proposed so as you can see there's one little chunk And that's our unit right there. That's being left on the whole block and
 which didn't seem to be in uniform. Right there, working with your goals for 82nd. And then the second part, the blue sheet I wrote was the public transportation. I'm glad TriMet, ODOT and PBOT was talking about it before we came up. So there is the little marks of the buses, the green MAX line, the Spring Water Quarter. So we're near all of that and it's kind of nice to be,
 having employment and Marty spoke about offices not being Abundance on near 82nd So I'm thinking our location is excellent for the rezoning because of all the public transportation you talk about and the shortness of Offices and stuff like that so we get result now on the flip side. I also want to know because I Email you a testimony that's more in details, but briefly summarizing it because at the time we have is that I?
 The tenants that are living there now, they're loving our product. They love us three out of four of our tenants are returning tenants.
 And the fourth one is waiting to come back if one of them move. So I'm just letting you know, we're being really good landlord. We're taking care of our tenants. We care about tenants. So even if you rezone, it doesn't mean that there's less housing, if that makes sense. We're still keeping it. So I want to give you peace of mind. And another testimony emailed in was from the tenant that lived there also. So we also have that. The other tenants are at work right now, so they couldn't come. They told me that they would love if you call them or come by and visit. They'd be happy to tell you.
 So I want to share that. But definitely looking at the whole map that is provided by your website, it's that one chunk right there, and that's our property. So we just want to step forward and say, can you just include us in? We're being good homeowners. Thank you. Question. Did you raise this during the process? Is this the first? So what was the response from the staff? So I found out later on, we've been having,
 I had a concussion in 2016, so I paused a little bit on things, but when I reach out to Mari, I have to give her kudos. She was outstanding in responding, very courteous, and she explained the process, and that's how we're here today, because we found out about that. And then I met Joanne Hardesty at one of the events we were at, and she says, be involved, participate, speak up, and I'm also a liaison in the community, so that's where I'm at.
 I meet some of you, so I'm coming here is because I'm participating in that. And so when I reach out to the staff, this was the first time I was able to come publicly to voice. And that's why we're here today. So you just found out about this and that's why you're here. So we'll get staff back up after you've
 I appreciate it because previously we didn't know about this. If I could just supplement, I think the issue may have been loss of housing except 83rd right there has all housing and so they are going to rezone some but not all. Keep in mind that in that area all of the houses are reaching the end of their economic life. People have to decide if they're going to invest in them and if they have zoning issues
 They may not. So what zoning do you want on these properties? On ours, employment? The same as all the others on 83rd. Thank you. Because we're right in the corner. We'll ask about it. Thank you very much. Very good. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. Terry Parker, Northeast Portland. Developed as a state highway, 82nd Avenue was the only East Portland North-South service street
 that extends from near the Columbia River all the way into Clackamas County. Today, 82nd Avenue is a high-volume motor vehicle street, a backup route for I-205 used by commercial vehicles, and a frequent transit service street, and is often the route of emergency vehicles. I served on ODOT's Community Advisory Committee that helped develop ODOT's 218-1192
 implementation plan to update intersections and add crosswalks. My reasons for wanting to serve in this capacity were simple. To represent taxpaying motorists and support maintaining throughput balanced with neighborhood deliverability. Better sidewalks are needed, but not by reducing the road dedication between the curbs.
 Striping roadways with lanes that are only 10 foot wide or reducing traffic lanes for other purposes creates diversion and congestion, adds to fuel consumption, and intensifies emissions. The need for motor vehicle capacity has not kept up with growth. It is my understanding that within the pedestrian districts, the plans call for...
 maintaining a row dedication of 90 feet or 45 feet on each side of the center line, which also includes 15-foot sidewalks. That allows for 60 feet of right-of-way between the curbs. TriMet buses are 10 feet, 6 inches wide, mirror-to-mirror. Freight and large...
 Large freight and semi-trucks and those wide cargo trailers, often towed by slimmer pickup trucks, all need lane wets that have a clearance factor on each side. Large vehicles need to be able to pass large vehicles safely. This is especially true on 82nd, where TriMet buses stop in travel lanes to board passengers.
 Bus turnout pockets should be explored at high-volume stops such as Madison High School. Since pedestrian districts are usually located at or near cross streets where signalized left turn pockets are located, none of the five lanes on 82nd Avenue should be striped for less than 12 feet wide. A slightly wider row of 66 feet between the curbs may be better. A slightly wider row also better aligns with both TriMet's and Metro's latest public surveys where respondents...
 overwhelmingly demonstrated people want wider streets and more motor vehicle capacity. Finally, there are rumblings from neighborhoods all over the city about the lack of off-street parking with new residential development. No on-street parking on 82nd. Any new development must have adequate off-street parking and motors must be on any CAC committees. Thank you. Thank you. I just realized that your amendment is in the package that the Mayor moved.
 So it's already on the table, the staff supports it and we'll vote on it at the end of the next week. But it's, the staff supports it and I think you should be good. Next three please. Are Michael Lee, Brent Arendt and Peter F. Frye and they'll be followed by Stephanie Frederick, Michael Saltlightner and Ishmael Armenta. I'm glad to see that worked out. Would you like to start please? Sure. Thank you.
 My name is Michael Liu. I'm with Fubon Shopping Center. Hello, Mayor and City Commissioners. I want to thank you guys for the opportunity for letting me speak to you guys today. I represent Fubon Shopping Center. We're an international marketplace with grocery, restaurant, retail, and other services. Fubon has created hundreds of jobs, and we service over a million people at our center annually. Thank you.
 To make the 82nd Avenue plan a success, we need to make sure all the stakeholders have an opportunity to give an opinion as it moves forward. I've not voiced my opinion in this type of setting before, but the future of our corridor is too important to sit idle.
 The area highlighted in the 82nd Avenue plan would provide improved enhancement for an underserved, diverse population of our community. I travel 82nd frequently. My family chose to relocate our food distribution center to near 82nd. 82nd is an important arterial for passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles, pedestrians, bicycles, and bus services.
 The final plan approved for the Civic Corridor needs to accommodate all modes of transportation. The overall livability will be negatively impacted without the success of commercial development in the area. Fubon Shopping Center has one entrance and exit out of the mall. This causes drivers and pedestrians to be very anxious trying to navigate and use 82nd Avenue.
 I believe having better connectivity with the neighborhood through alternative access points and better sight lines on 82nd will improve shopping center and the use of 82nd Avenue.
 82nd will continue to draw more and more traffic as our city grows. We need to find ways to better connect 82nd traffic to the rest of the neighboring roads. Not all traffic needs to cross 82nd. I believe another access point in and out of the shopping center on Southeast 85th would do a lot to alleviate the pressure put on 82nd Avenue.
 With the right safety measures like speed bumps and marked crosswalks, we can allow other roads to service vehicles that are attempting to travel to other parts of the city without needing to cross 82nd Avenue. My family has lived in Portland since immigrating here in 1977. I believe investing in our neighborhood. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for being here.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Brent Aaron. I'm a traffic engineer with McKinsey, and I've been working with Michael and Fubon Market for over a year now, looking at opportunities to improve access and circulation. As Michael mentioned, they're trying to improve access. Right now, the only access is to 82nd. It's congested. All the vehicles that need to go to Fubon have to use 82nd. We're looking for opportunities. So...
 This is all included in Michael's packet as well that's being handed out to you if you want to look at it more carefully. But you can see the Blue Star is the only access they have now. There's two stub streets, but we can't access there. They're unimproved local streets and there's some grade challenges. The only opportunity really is 85th, which is a neighborhood greenway. Peter, if you could show the next one here.
 So this shows, this site plan kind of shows where we would access. The grades work here. There's an existing pedestrian-only access, but we'd like to have an access at that point. This is what we found would actually benefit circulation and kind of consistent with the plan that, as Michael mentioned, we support. I'm sorry, so the gray area is what you're proposing is the access? For vehicle access for all users, bikes, peds, and vehicles. So off 185. Yeah. 185, okay.
 It improves connectivity, allows people to come in and out without having to go out to 82nd, help reduce congestion there. And then the last plan, real quick, is actually, this is from the city's own plan. This shows one of the concepts, option A for further development of this site, and they actually show an access to 85th. Now, because 85th is a neighborhood greenway, we need an adjustment.
 and we're looking for support from council. We've started discussions with staff. I think Peter will get into a little bit, but it complies with the plan.
 And an interesting note, if this site were vacant today, remember this was the old PCC site, if it were vacant today and we came in with a development, we would be required to build a connection from 82nd to 85th as well as likely extend 84th through the site, which actually opens up 85th to more through traffic than we would have just adding this particular driveway.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. So you're proposing that people going to the market would go through the apartment complex? Yes.
 No, this is actually just a concept of kind of future additional development on the back parking lot of Fubon. Okay. But the idea here is it shows that the intent is to provide another access for that cross connectivity so people don't have to drive out to 82nd just to get in here. It's a great market and I absolutely agree that it's scary trying to get in and out of there, especially on the weekend when it's full of lots of folks.
 So I'm not clear what you're asking us to do. You said this is in compliance with the plan. Are you asking for an amendment to the plan? We're not. There's really two things. One is to express our support for the plan. We think this benefits. And to show that what we're requesting is consistent with the plan. And because we need an adjustment,
 We need staff support to have that access. And so we're pointing out that what we're doing is consistent with the plan. I think Peter can get in a little more of the details. But you'll have to work through the adjustment process and we won't be the decision makers, right? Understood, understood. We need that support from staff. Got it, thank you. The preview of coming attractions. I was just worried about us. Exactly. Being asked to approve a driveway and I. Makes us all jittery. Good afternoon.
 So my name is Peter Finley Frye. I'm a land use planning consultant.
 And I wanted to frame the challenge that we have, which is we all want a balanced street system that deals with all kinds of things. And we want, I've coined the term controlled connectivity because we want to have connectivity through our in city, but we also don't want to overwhelm neighborhoods with traffic. So we have to manage what I call that connectivity. The dilemma that we're facing and why we are here now to bring this to your attention,
 was there is no mechanism right now in transportation to do small area plans.
 We can do the large 82nd plan and we can do a site plan for a redevelopment of the site. But for us to look at this situation, and I don't want to be negative because PDOT has been struggling with us to try and find a way that we can look at the bigger picture and not be caught into an adjustment because a regulatory approach to these things is really
 way to fix the issue since we have to balance access to the market which is extremely important I think for the j district and the growth of the area we also have to balance the impact of that market on the residential uses to the east this issue is actually the same all the way up and down 82nd because you have residential neighborhoods on both sides of a street with uh
 Actually, ODOT does not allow access on the street. ODOT actually wants you to have access from the backside in the residential neighborhood, so you're caught in this trap of not having access on 82nd and not having access on the side streets. So we are going to go ahead in the adjustment process, as you know,
 and we'll try and make it work, but we're asking that maybe we can get a little bigger picture here and look at what we can do to improve more than just our site, but what we can do to improve the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you, Peter. Thanks all of you for bringing in this vision. Thanks, Michael, for all that you're doing. Appreciate it. Next three, please, Carla. Are Stephanie Frederick, Michael Santlietner, and Ishmael Armenta.
 and they'll be followed by Kimberly Botter, Robert Kratzer, I believe it is, and Richard Shepard. Michael, congratulations. Yes, congratulations.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Stephanie Frederick. I came here today to reiterate the support for the 82nd Avenue plan of the Brentwood-Darlington Neighborhood Association and SEAM. So since you have received my letters and we have other speakers, I'm going to yield my time with great thanks to April Bertelsen and Marty Stockton for fabulous work. Thank you very much. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Michael Sunlightner. I live at 1037 Southeast 80th Avenue for the past 16 years, and naturally, I see a lot of 82nd Avenue. Before I was elected four years ago to the PCC board, I was active with the 82nd Avenue Improvement Coalition, and what can I say that hasn't been said? It seems to me that there's kind of a bureaucratic dysfunction between the two.
 between PBOT and ODOT, and I don't mean any of that to be a personal criticism. I see fingers being pointed in different directions in terms of resolving the problems, and the problems not being resolved. A good example was when I was with Alyssa Kinne-Geyer at Cartlandia. At one point, she was having a town hall sort of meeting, and the owner of Cartlandia was concerned about the sidewalk, which is owned by PBOT.
 and how it did not really work with the street, which is owned by, of course, ODOT. And literally, his customers were getting scraped. The undersides of their cars were being scraped as they came into his business. And he couldn't figure out how to get that fixed because neither side wanted to really do too much to help it. She managed to kind of finagle a solution.
 which I was very impressed with. The problem is we should not be finagling. We should go with jurisdictional transfer with all deliberate speed because the liabilities that the community is experiencing now, including areas near Cartlandia that have no sidewalks whatsoever, literally no sidewalks on 82nd Avenue, these are clear and present dangers to the public.
 that we need to take care of as soon as possible. I thank you for your time. Thank you, Michael. Congratulations. Next three are Kimberly Botter, Robert Kratzer, and Richard Shepard, and they'll be followed by Li Chen, Kuan Li, and Ben Wang. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 would you like to start please? I can, yes. Thank you. My name is Kimberly Botter. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I've never done anything like this. This is definitely out of my comfort zone. So I guess where to start as I moved into Madison South neighborhood almost 16 years ago, not far off of 82nd and pretty apparent I
 Quickly after moving there. I started realizing all the dysfunction of 82nd I don't know if there's a whole lot more to add. I think you guys are well aware But that did get me involved in it, you know seven years ago I became involved with the 82nd Avenue improvement coalition and then somehow ended up being land-use chair for our neighborhood Association and I just am very passionate about 82nd. That is what has led to my involvement and
 I am tired of watching high schoolers just darting across the street at various logical places for them, but there's no crosswalks. The timing signals are horribly short, definitely not up to city standards. I did write in testimony, but honestly, I have a son with physical disabilities.
 He has an orthopedic impairment. He wears a brace. He has a very slow gait. And for years, we obviously would like to walk and go to our community park.
 And just to cross the street is such a harrowing experience. I also have a daycare, so I have other kids with me. So I've got other kids with me, either stroller, my son who's got a slow gait. And you push the button and you wait. And then finally, you know, it goes. But you don't go right away because there's still people running the light. So you wait until everybody has definitely stopped. Then you start to walk and get...
 It's green again and cars are going right past you and it's really a frustrating experience You know and my son, you know feels bad, but he can't walk any faster. That is how fast he can walk and I am just tired of it just being inadequate just sidewalks they are way too narrow there are spots and
 As you know, that people cannot pass with disabilities or even strollers. But thank you. I just really support this plan, and I hope that you guys will. And we appreciate you being here. Thanks a lot.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Robert Krautzer, steering committee member of the 82nd Avenue Improvement Coalition. I just want to say a few words of support. 82nd Avenue of Roses has the potential to be a beautiful street. Tree-lined, rosebush-lined, multimodal, pedestrian-oriented, safe, livable, urban, a connector, not a divider, a bridge, not a barrier,
 commercial and residential, a new center for Portland. There's opportunity to encourage and support sustainable growth along 82nd Avenue. With the proposed zoning changes allowing for more flexible uses, a better street design is necessary to allow for successful future development along the avenue.
 I support the 82nd Avenue plan and urge you to support it as well. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Afternoon. So first, I just want to thank both the BPS staff and also the PBOT staff for putting together these proposals. Mayor and commissioners, many of you attended the Avenue of Roses parade this year. Who are you? Sorry, Richard Shepherd. Thank you. I'm also an organizer with Bi-Cloud PDX.
 And you saw how culturally diverse and beautiful this community really is. More importantly, you've seen that the community, the design of the street certainly does not dictate how great this community can be.
 For instance, you saw the parents and the workers who ride the most popular bus line in Portland but are stuck behind single occupancy vehicles. You saw the dangerous conditions for walking, rolling, and biking and taking transit. And you also saw the families and friends of those who have been injured or killed in crashes along 82nd.
 And this plan for spot improvements and for zoning changes are a step in the right direction. And I urge you all to adopt these plans. But furthermore, we need to immediately fund and install both crossings and also leading pedestrian intervals and protected left turns as we did with the Broadway and Grand collision,
 especially at Jonesmoor and 82nd where the Madison High School student was nearly killed, as well as also at our high crash corridors and any safe routes to school. I can't impress this enough, safety cannot wait.
 Lastly, I really urge all of you to work with Salem and ODOT and I appreciate the work that's already going on with PBOT to support jurisdictional transfer as well as also our other urban highways that are under ODOT control. The vision of this community is not gonna be possible without jurisdictional transfer and without it being controlled by our community.
 So thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks all three of you. Appreciate it. The last three I show are Lee Chen, Quan Lee, and Bei Wang. And if anybody signed up who did not hear their name, come on up.
 Anybody else? All right, very good. Colleagues, would anybody like staff to return for any follow-up questions? Then we'll get to voting on the amendments. First up is the amendment to the ordinance, the package of BDS amendments. Any further questions? Carla, please call the roll. Hardesty?
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? I love it when people come in at the very last moment and staff is able to do a quick assessment and determine that they've got the right thing going. Good job, Martha Stockton. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. To the resolution, any further discussion? Please call the roll. I'll call the amendment. Udailey Amendment? I'm sorry, yep. Udailey Amendment, thank you. Let's call the roll on that.
 Bish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udalli? Thank you for your support, colleagues. Aye. Fritz? The most enthusiastic amendments I have ever seen on my time on the council. I'm really, really happy with this. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted to the resolution is amended. Please call the roll. Well, just a couple of quick comments because I know we're backed up and we're about to go into budget season.
 First, I wanna thank my friend and colleague, Commissioner Udalli for her leadership in bringing this forward and for her amendment. Second, I wanna thank April and Marty for two of the best presentations we've had in a long time. We can't do the work that we do without having highly skilled planners that do the hard work and then come and explain it to the rest of us.
 and make it accessible. And I think Marty has probably got a mental image of every square foot of this particular district that she's talking about. We're very lucky to have people of this quality working for the city. So I wanna thank you for your presentation and the quality of your work. I wanna thank all the community members that took time to come out and testify. The testimony was compelling.
 I live on the west side, but I spend a lot of time on 82nd. I'm almost invariably on a good weekend having breakfast at the bipartisan cafe, spending half my time taking the hardesty literature and replacing it with the fish literature. I am more often than not when I'm at a community dinner on the west side, excuse me, on the east side, I'm at a restaurant like Wong's King or HK Cafe or any number of the,
 really fantastic options that we have in that community. When my family and I want to go on an outing, what better than to go to Head to Lentz and to go visit Zanger Farm and Foster Floodplain and Leach Botanical Garden. There is so much going on up and down that corridor, and it is time that we upgraded 82nd, made it safe, brought it to a more community-friendly place. Thank you.
 And we stopped the planning and actually got into the implementation phase. And so I think that's the message we've heard from the community. I have great confidence in our transportation commissioner who has taken on this assignment with real relish. And she is quick to acknowledge on a regular basis how grateful and fortunate she feels to have this assignment. Thank you.
 which she's done an excellent job leading. So to everyone who made this hearing happen and to our friends at ODOT and TriMet who are our key partners, thank you, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Artisty? I also want to thank Commissioner Udalli and Portland Department of Transportation for the hard work in putting this proposal in front of us.
 I have to share my skepticism that the state of Oregon's ODOT will actually give us a street that actually is worthy of being able to drive, walk, ride, or bicycle on. I live in this neighborhood, so that's why you're removing my material. I'm looking for fair play. I live in the neighborhood, and so what I know is that is the worst street
 to walk, bike, be on a bus today at the worst street in the city of Portland. What I also know is you don't have to go far off 82nd in either direction to step in huge potholes where there are no sidewalks, there are no lighting. I mean, so I don't want us to leave here under any false illusions that...
 all of a sudden we're going to have this wonderful relationship on 82nd Avenue. There has been a lack of investments in that community for a long, long, long time. I want to caution PDOT that as they negotiate with ODOT that nothing except the
 repairing that street totally with a maintenance plan attached to it will be acceptable to bring that at least to me on this commission. It, it makes me a little nervous that people say we should just like take it down today. No, we, we, as a commissioner, you daily said, we've already got 3 billion and deferred maintenance that the city is responsible for.
 And so I vote yes as a cautionary tale that I look forward to the real information coming back from these negotiations and just know I will support nothing less than it being fully repaired before it is turned over with a plan for assisting us with the maintenance and upkeep. I vote aye. Udaylee? Aye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. I'm going to need you to continue saying that. My head was getting a little big from all the praise, and now I've been brought right back down to earth. I want to assure you that we are not going to accept a lemon, and I am hopeful about the negotiations with ODOT moving forward. I want to thank PBOT staff as well as BES for bringing forward
 this plan and you know since everyone's giving their shout outs to their favorite 82nd Avenue businesses I have to put plugs in for Fubon one of my favorite places to visit HLVL sandwiches which is next door HK cafe of course the orchard on 82nd which I was a big enthusiastic supporter of since the beginning and um
 the great public art that's starting to pop up on 82nd Avenue as well as the observatory At Montevilla where I had a certain special first date. I'm sure everyone's fascinated at this point. I'm happy to vote aye I'm really tired and I'm excited to move on to the budget
 Well, thanks to the community. This is a community-driven, community-led plan. And I remember when the community, both the business associations and the neighborhood association said, let's call it the 82nd Avenue of Roses. And there was pretty much universal division and kind of laughing.
 And yet, look at where we've come. And the parade every year gets more and more attendance, even when it was raining like this year. I was kind of smiling about the paving. Having walked that parade route, it certainly needs doing.
 So, and as was mentioned, just seeing all the challenges with the crosswalk and experiencing that while carrying my banner and my sign at the same time. But kudos to the community and thank you for engaging and it's a lot, a lot of time in this and I appreciated the person who came from Madison South saying she got involved from moving in and then lo and behold, you end up being the land use chair and one thing leads to another. So thank you for engaging. Thank you Marty Stockton in
 Development Services? Planning. That's what I thought. Planning and Sustainability and April Bertelsen in Transportation. Sometimes we hear about the silos and I've just realized that one of the structural problems and the reasons we have that is because we're going to vote on the ordinance next week and that's when we'll all say thank you to Mayor Wheeler for his work in leading both Development Services and Planning and Sustainability in partnership with Transportation. So this is a
 an excellent example of a seamless project where, if you hadn't, obviously I couldn't even remember which bureaus you were representing at times, because you've worked really well together with the community, and I was particularly excited about the impact statement and the community involvement that went into this. We've had some other projects where there's been a lot of controversy and concern from property owners about that foot of sidewalk or whatever. And here we have this, we were told we needed to have
 just so that more people could come and say how much they like this project. So thank you very, very much for all the investment up here, for your leadership of the team at transportation. I'm very happy to vote aye. Wheeler. Well, my only regret today is Commissioner Eudaly took her vote and cut off the conversation right as it was getting to the good part of her story. So we're all going to have to push her a little bit on that in the future. We'll talk later. Podcast.
 Exactly, exactly. This is really a day to celebrate. In many regards, 82nd Avenue represents the center of our city, as other people have mentioned. It's an economically prosperous area. It's an area of tremendous potential. It is the most diverse portion of our community.
 and this is a grand vision which represents, I believe, a lot of hope and speaks to the optimism people have for the community. There's a lot of people I'd like to quickly thank. First of all, Commissioner Udaly and her staff for what I think has just been excellent leadership
 And I'd like to thank the Portland Bureau of Transportation, especially April Bertelsen, who we heard from earlier today. There were many people who worked hard on this, but I know April put a tremendous amount of time and energy into the study. And I'd also like to thank Mary Stockton from the Bureau of... I'm sorry, Monty Stockton? Marty. Marty. What did I say? Mary. Mary. Oh, sorry about that.
 Marty Stockton from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for her identical level of hard work and commitment and enthusiasm for this. I'd like to thank all the community members for showing up and engaging in the advocacy and the governing process, including the 82nd Avenue Improvement Coalition, APANO, OPAL, East Portland Action Plan, and many, many more. Thank you all for your dedication and your years of tireless service
 Your efforts have not been in vain, and we hear you, and we are thrilled to be part of the solution here today. And I'd like to thank our partners at the state level, particularly to Mandy Putney from ODOT for being here today. Your partnership in the trans...
 transformation of this corridor, as you've heard today from the council and others in testimony, it's absolutely critical, especially as the primary owner of 82nd Avenue. And although they were not able to make it today, I do not want to be remiss in forgetting to mention either Senator Dembrow or Representative Kenny Geyer, who in particular have been huge champions of
 of improving 82nd Avenue. And finally, thanks to Kerry Ayers-Polonek from TriMet and Metro Councilor Bob Stacey for being here today. Your collaborative leadership on transportation issues in the city and the region is imperative to moving this forward effectively. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended.
 And I want to announce that the ordinance that we move to second reading will have a time certain. The ordinance as amended will be heard on May 29th, 2019 at 9.45 a.m. Portland City Council. Be there. We'll take a five minute recess. Everyone, I'm continuing the meeting of the City of Portland's Budget Committee from May 22nd, 2019.
 Director Kennard, do you want to give us a recap on where we are?
 Yes, thank you Mayor and Council. Good afternoon. My name is Jessica Kennard for the record, Interim Budget Director. I'm here with Ryan Kinsella, our Interim Assistant Director. Again to recap what has been completed on this item to date, we have held and closed the hearing on state revenue sharing. We have reviewed the changes in the approved budget as filed and there has been a motion and a second on those changes. We have heard motions and seconds on several additional amendments from Council Members. Language from these amendments are before you today.
 We have held and closed public testimony on the proposed changes and the budget as a whole. Today, we will first hear if there are additional amendments for consideration. We will then vote to include amendments that have been motioned and seconded. Next, Council will vote to approve the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the memo as amended on the floor. Council will then vote to approve the budget as amended. And finally, we will approve the tax levies.
 Mayor, this is your time to allow for additional amendments and proceed to discussion and voting on the individual amendments. Very good. Before we get to the discussion and voting on each of the amendments, Commissioner Hardesty would like to make a revision. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I would like to rescind my motion one from yesterday.
 and replace it with a new motion one. Do we need a vote on the recension or is that just, no? No, you may do it. Second. Second. Thank you. And so my new motion one reads as follows. Motion to increase funding for Portland Parks and Rec and avoid layoffs, option one of two.
 allocate $1,834,097 in one-time general fund resources to Portland Parks and Rec. These funds will support staffing costs to help avoid layoffs of approximately 35 employees in fiscal year 2019-20.
 The funding source for this increased appropriation is a reduction to the general fund compensation set aside of $1,834,097, which represents a one-year freeze of cost-of-living adjustments for non-represented employees making $80,000 or more.
 The effective date of this freeze would be July 1st, 2019 through June 2020. Employees would be eligible for cumulative COLA fiscal year 2019 to 20 and fiscal year 2020 to 21 combined, beginning in fiscal year 2020-21.
 The city budget office will reduce compensation set asides by $1,834,097. Non-general fund bureaus should similarly account for reduced costs as a result of freezing COLA for non-represented employees making $80,000 or more. Amended attachments be C and E as necessary. Okay.
 You might ask why I have decided to replace my motion one. As we discussed yesterday, there was some concern about whether or not we would be out of compliance around equity.
 And I wanted to be sure that if we were freezing salaries, it would be for the highest paid employees at the city of Portland. Thereby, this revision addresses only employees that are making 80,000 and above of this 1,305, 77% of these employees are in a job classified with supervisory or management duties and their job description of this 1,305,
 1305, 49% make more than $100,000 per year. I believe that this is a good stop gap to ensure that 35 employees will not lose their jobs as we figure out together how we make sure that our park system is strong and available and accessible for us all. Thank you, Commissioner Herd. Can I get a second?
 Oh, I thought I already did. Yeah, I think Commissioner Udaly's second. Oh, I think, did she second? Okay. Good, so we have a motion. Second, second. And we have a firm second from Commissioner Udaly and...
 we will call Commissioner Hardesty's number one, the new motion number one. Thank you. Very good, thank you, Commissioner. So we'll just go in the order that they were proposed. The first amendment is the motion to amend attachment D to add the budget note regarding the policy on stipends for advisory body members. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Hardesty. Udaly. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment passes. Amendment number two, the motion to amend attachment D to add the following budget note pertaining to the auditor's office prior year under spending. And I want to acknowledge that Commissioner Hardesty's friendly amendment that caps that amount at $500,000 is also included in this amendment. Any further discussion? Yes. I have some questions about this. So this is for
 Financially, it's 19-20. So does that mean that in this fall, this money would be deposited in the new fund? As it's currently written, no. Yes, as it's currently written, no, beginning in 19-20. So it would be the underspending that would occur for 19-20, which would fall to 20-21. And how much has the underspending in the auditor's office been over time, over the last, say, four years?
 It has ranged. I believe we looked at it. I can get you those numbers. I actually have the numbers. I just thought you would have them as well, because I asked you a couple of days ago. And the answer is an average of $415,333.
 So if you look at the cumulative over four years from financial year 14, 15 to 17, 18, the fund would be $1.66 million. So Commissioner Hardesty, I definitely appreciate your gap of $500,000. Is there any other bureau that gets to keep or elected office that gets to keep any of its ending fund balance without telling the council what they are going to do with it? Not for general fund bureaus. Yes.
 And it's my understanding that the auditor's office is not part of the Moss Adams general financial audit that the rest of the city is subject to. I would have to get back to you on that. Yeah, that's why I didn't frame that in terms of the question, because I asked the auditor that when we had the Moss Adams. In fact, when we had the Moss Adams audit, it was pointed out that the auditor's budget is not part of that. And I asked the auditor then who audits your...
 budget and the answer was we're peer reviewed. But we never, the council doesn't see that. And we are by state law designated to manage this taxpayers money in the general fund, right? Correct.
 So colleagues, I am not going to support this even with the amendments. I think especially as we're likely to be heading into another recession, $400,000 a year is necessary. Of course, not all of that is general fund, but some of it is overhead funded, which means rate funded from the utilities. We know that we're struggling to keep utility rates as low as possible. And so I can't support having someone having an office that isn't subject to the annual audit having
 have a fund that it's not clear what's done with it or reported what's been done with it. Very good, any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. No. Wheeler. Aye.
 Amendment 3, motion to allocate $100,000 in recreational cannabis tax resources to the Portland Housing Bureau. Any further discussion? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I believe that this may be a good time.
 I understand it was a pilot project that happened last year, but I'm not sure that we've gotten information back yet from the housing bureau about how successful that effort was around expungements.
 But I think that if, since they've had some experience last year, it just really focused on that. I think that this is a good amendment that I would support. With the caveat that we get more detailed information before we choose to do this again. Very good, any further discussion? Please call the roll, Carla. Fish. Aye.
 Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? I very much appreciate Commissioner Udailey's ongoing work to address records expungement and I'm very happy that this is one of the purposes of the cannabis tax resources this year. Aye. Weiner? I vote aye.
 Next item, number four, motion to amend attachment D, specifically the budget note titled Funding for 311 to adjust the deadline for passage of resolution and to remove the bureau's specific references. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Aye. Hardesty? Udalli? Aye. Fritz? I'm really excited to see this dedicated funding for 311 and I really honor you, Mayor, for providing this, aye. Weener?
 I vote aye. The amendment passes. Number five, motion to allocate $85,000 in general fund resources to Portland Parks and Recreation for the maintenance of transit mall planters. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Yes. I'm sorry, Commissioner Hardesty. That's okay.
 I have a problem with $85,000 for planners when we're talking about laying off people. I mean, I just don't get why we're making an investment in planners. I mean, they look pretty, but I'd much rather use that investment for people rather than for things that look pretty. Commissioner Fruits? I don't believe we're buying new planters. This is to pay the people in parks who plant the planters.
 Well, unfortunately, and I'm going to regret, I'm going to, if I could, I'm going to reluctantly support this, but we have a contractual obligation to maintain the planners on the bus mall. The, I, I, what I intend to do in the next year is to revisit that agreement because I, I, I would like to see if it can be shifted back to TriMet or to the nonprofit organization that manages the, the mall. But currently it's a contractual obligation of the Parks Bureau. Okay.
 Is that something that comes from Portland Business Alliance in a partnership with them? No, there's a separate organization, Portland Mall Management or something. It's a separate nonprofit. It's a separate board. It levies a tax. There's a tax levy that pays for some of the improvements. We originally proposed cutting this. There are some contractual issues that have to be worked out, and I intend to spend the next year working those out.
 So just by way of context. So I will reluctantly support it. Thank you. Commissioner Daly? Commissioner, I just want to welcome that conversation as I am the liaison to the mall committee, another entity. I'm not getting the name right today, but I'm really interested in how we can enliven our bus malls and...
 and use the resources that we have. So let's talk. Thank you. Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. I really appreciate how these beautify downtown and the hard work that the people who maintain them put in to do that. Aye. Wheeler. I really appreciate my colleagues. Commissioner Udaly, thank you for being the liaison. And Commissioner Fish, thank you for your commitment. This is actually...
 The third time I believe I've been involved in this discussion about the mall planters and it would be good to get this resolved once and for all. So I appreciate your commitment. And if there's any way that I can help or my staff can help, I'm signing us up. I vote aye, the amendment's adopted. Item six please, the motion to allocate $14,000 in general fund resources to Portland Parks and Recreation for the Poets Beach Program Administration. Any further discussion?
 Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? While I think this is a fun activity, I am all about employees keeping their jobs, and I must vote no. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? This is a public safety issue to make sure that when people are using the Willamette that there are hygiene facilities and ranges and other components. Aye. Okay.
 Wheeler. Aye. The motion carries. Item 7, the motion to allocate $17,000 in general fund resources to Prosper Portland for Venture Portland. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. No. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Weiner. Aye. The motion carries. Number eight, motion to allocate $900,000 in recreational cannabis tax resources to the Office of Community and Civic Life for grants and small business development work. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? Mayor, I just want to make just a brief comment. For those watching us.
 address these amendments in a fairly pro forma way. It's important that they know that at the hearing we had yesterday, each of these amendments was read into the record. We had a chance to discuss it and we also had a chance to take public testimony. So what we're now doing is just casting our vote. We're not short-circuiting the process. If this is the first time you've sort of parachuted in and seen us work on these amendments. Aye. Hardesty?
 I am very excited about the Office of Civic and Community Life being able to work with those who have been negatively impacted by marijuana law. I think this is a good investment from the marijuana tax that we currently, as the auditor's report showed.
 an enormous amount of those dollars went primarily to policing, which was not what the public thought they were voting to support.
 I want to make sure, working in cooperation with Commissioner Udaly, that we are making every opportunity available for those who've been negatively impacted by poor public policy around marijuana benefit from these dollars. And we have not seen that as of yet, but I do believe there's a plan to make that happen. And because of that, I vote aye. Udaly?
 Well, I want to thank you, Mayor, for this allocation. I take restorative justice very seriously. I feel that one of my most important jobs as an elected representative is to seek and deliver remedy to community members for past wrongs, and we are achieving that to some
 with the amount of money allocated to our grants program. I'm really proud of the staff and pleased with how it's going. I vote aye. Fritz? Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Thank you for not only swooping in on the available resources that were unallocated this year, but also looking at what was not spent in a previous year's Vision Zero project to increase the amount that's going to be going out in the community grants
 Thank you also to Winter Johannes on your staff, working with Claire Adamsick on my staff to set up this year's program of $700,000 that has just been allocated. It's been a really good process and a thoughtful process to make sure that as we're setting up a program, which we intend to be multi-year, we're being very intentional about who gets the money and how it's spent.
 the grants are written and adjudicated. So I'm very pleased with also the balance between the Prosper Portland Small Business Development work and also the individual small grants. So I think this is a very encouraging start to the cannabis tax dedication to make good on the promise that was made to the voters in 2016 that it would benefit people and communities previously impacted by cannabis prohibition. Ms. Wiener.
 I vote aye. The motion carries. Next item, Amendment 9, Motion to allocate $133,000 in general fund resources to the Portland Housing Bureau's Rental Services Office. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Udaly? Thank you again, Mayor. Aye. Fritz? And I'm pleased to see in the budget note that it says for augmenting efforts around education, outreach, and communication. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment carries. Item 10, motion to allocate $35,000 in general fund resources to the Regional Arts and Culture Council for cultural mapping work, eliminate $180,000 one-time reduction to the Regional Arts and Culture Council, and reduce $180,000 for the cultural mapping project. Any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 First, I just want to say that it is a point of great pride that my office has the opportunity to work with Commissioner Udaly's office on arts and culture in this community. Commissioner Udaly is now currently the commissioner who is the liaison to the Regional Arts and Culture Council office.
 but we work very well together and there's a lot of work in the pipeline. Some of it suggested by the audit that we asked for, others through the negotiation of a new operating agreement, and then third, there are just all kinds of initiatives underway at the board level and at council in terms of clarifying roles and responsibilities and oversight. I strongly support this amendment and I thank my colleagues for bringing it forward, aye.
 Hardesty you daily. I want to thank the mayor for including this item in his budget. It's one of
 the steps forward on our arts affordability plan that Commissioner Fish developed, was it last year, the year before? I'm losing track. I can't even remember who knows. And it's really essential to the conversation around arts affordability to know what currently exists in order to identify opportunities to preserve it, as well as see where the gaps in the community are. So I'm very excited to get this underway, I vote aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. I support Commissioner Udalli and Commissioner Fish's hard work on this and their thinking on this. It's very hard for us to know whether or not our resources are hitting the right marks if we don't know what the baseline is and what the resources actually are in the community. And this is something that we've heard from the community has been needed for a long time.
 So I appreciate the partnership and collaboration in moving this forward. I vote aye. The amendment's adopted. Next item is Commissioner Fritz's motion to allocate $70,000 in general fund resources to the Bureau of Development Services for historic resource review. Any further discussion? Commissioner Hardesty. All right. Thank you, Mayor.
 This is one of those that gives me great pain because I don't believe that we have set the pricing correctly on this particular issue. When it was presented to us, we were told that the goal was to...
 pay for the service that we are asking, that we're asking the city to provide, to cover all the costs. And for me, I think that's a wrong way to, I mean, that's why I think we're in a situation where we're all with parks, is because we have this mindset that if we,
 can charge people enough for the public service we provide, then we can provide the public service. I think we're doing it backwards. I think that it would be much more appropriate to say what is in the public's interest and then base our rates on that. So I'm just very concerned that...
 I don't know why this is our policy, and I guess we'll have that conversation at a later time. But I'm just not a happy camper that we are charging people based on what we think we can get out of them, not based on their ability to pay, not based on whether or not the geographic area is low income or not. And I think setting artificially high prices makes city services unavailable for many people. What's your problem?
 Oh, and I vote no. Sorry. We aren't voting yet. Yeah. Oh, sorry. We're still in discussion. Oh, yeah. I think we're in discussion. Okay. Any further? Commissioner Fish? One of the issues, when we have an opportunity to take up Commissioner Hardesty's concerns, one of the issues that I'll need to be reminded on is I believe at some point we directed the Bureau of Development Services to move to a full cost recovery model. And if the council has directed that your fees have to match the cost...
 then there are limitations on what the Bureau can actually do with discretionary resources if we've so directed. So one of the questions I'll want to be refreshed on is what guidance has Council given? Then we can also evaluate, Commissioner Hardesty, whether that's the right guidance. Thank you.
 Thank you. I appreciate that, Commissioner, because when the staff were presenting this information to us, it was clear that they had been directed that they had to cover the cost of their salaries and all the expenses associated with that, and
 That just doesn't seem good public policy if that's what we're directing people to do. It just makes me wonder who's left out. Commissioner Daly? I mean, as the former commissioner in charge of BDS, I can shed a little bit of light on this, and that is the fact that we've given up most of our general fund dollars. The Bureau was pretty flush when I received it, and...
 As a bureau that relies on fees we have to charge fees that That recover our costs so and that is the cost for the service provided not the entire enterprise So well these fees did seem high and it wasn't there another amendment to lower them. Yes, I'm remembering correctly, I would argue that I
 providing access to parks and community centers benefits the community as a whole. And in this case, we're talking about individual property owners or developers that are applying for permits. And there's legitimate reason why we need them to pay what it costs us to provide the service. I would think that would be great for developers, but not for homeowners who...
 Mayor, I mean, I would think with homeowners, it would be based on their economic status as compared to just a flat fee that everybody pays the same. If I was a developer, I'd have more money to pay. I did bring an item yesterday that reduced fees for low-income homeowners 50%. Probably, I'm not, I don't think it would apply to this, but there are a variety of ways that we...
 are able to decrease burden to low-income individuals, but I don't know that we can ask developers to completely subsidize individuals
 individual homeowners. Can I make a suggestion on this? Commissioner Fritz first, then Commissioner Fish. Thank you. There used to be a $2 million general fund subsidy in development services, and that was exactly for the reason that you stated, so that low income folks, people who, on reviews like this where we actually want people to go through the process to pay for the services of the staff, that was gradually cut during the recession in part to fund parks, so it was,
 taken out of development services and put into other general fund bureaus to the point where now there's zero general fund dollars. And so this $70,000 actually goes in, starts to repair that slide to nothing.
 Obviously the staff in the bureau have to get paid one way or another. We can't over charge developers by state law So if we want there to be a program to help Lower income folks then we're going to have to provide general fund subsidies, and that's exactly what this does There's one other piece and again This this is the great value having a new colleague who comes in and says why are you doing it this way? And we can take a soup-to-nuts approach look at this I was here during the last great recession and
 and watch what happened when the cycle turned down. And as my colleagues know, what happens is the Bureau of Development Services takes tremendous layoffs. And those layoffs are beginning and will continue if the business cycle continues to slow down.
 There are restrictions on what the reserve funds can be used for. Reserves are heavily prescribed by council because of some challenges we faced in the past. But how much of those monies can and cannot be used to subsidize? So one of the other considerations is if our fee structure is not set at an appropriate level, then we're accelerating the number of layoffs we're going to have at the bureau.
 It's a complicated mix, but I think it's worthy of a broader discussion. And I'll second that comment about the reserves because trust me, I tried to spend some of that $90 million on things that we really desperately needed in the city, and I really couldn't. And we are required to keep a certain amount in the reserves, so.
 I'll just chime in. This is a really good conversation on this. I agree, Commissioner Udaly, there was probably an overcorrection with regard to the reserves. And this at least addresses one issue. And my suspicion is next year we'll be truing it up even more. So we're still working to find exactly the right balance. But I think this is a good step in the right direction. Any further discussion, please call the roll, Carla. Fish.
 I love this amendment. We had a hearing on fee increases. Some community members came out and objected. Commissioner Fritz prepared an amendment. The amendment passed, reducing the fee, and now we're taking up a budget item to fund it from the general fund. That is the council being very responsive, in my judgment, to a community concern, and I'm pleased to support the amendment. Is that all right? Thank you.
 I think I have to say aye, Nick. Excuse me, I'm pleased to support the amendment, comma, aye. Hardesty, Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Thank you, colleagues, aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment passes. The new motion, number one for Commissioner Hardesty, this is the motion to increase funding for Portland Parks and Recreation to avoid layoffs, option one of two. Any further discussion?
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I greatly appreciate the opportunity to have presented some motions to try to give some certainty to who I think are some of the hardest working city employees, which are parks employees. With all our budget hearings, I
 The super majority of people we heard from were people who talked about how necessary community centers and pools and the opportunity to have exercise programs were. That is a jewel of the city of Portland. And, you know, I'm fortunate to work for a city.
 that had a visionary that created our park system. Remember this guy? Remember this guy? Michael Jordan? Sir. Charles Jordan. Charles Jordan. Yeah, not Michael. No, this is Charles. I named a community center out of him. Yes, yes. The reason we have such an excellent park system today is because in spite of everything, he was a visionary man who believed that everybody in Portland
 should have access to green space community centers, that the community had a right to be able to go to their neighborhood community center and fully participate. What is grieving me as part of this budget process is that we have at least 35 and maybe more employees that just became permanent city employees with benefits,
 who have the potential to lose their job. We have opportunities to make sure that doesn't happen. And that's why I've given two opportunities and proposals to you, my colleagues. Now, as the new kid on the block, this is my very first budget process. And I'm pretty sure that I didn't do it the way other people have done it in the past.
 But that's the fun part about being the new kid on the block, right? You get the opportunity to do things differently. You get the opportunity to have conversations that we may not have had before. And so this proposal is about protecting our people, not just our employees, but the people in our community who say that without these community centers, they won't have childcare that they can afford. It's for the seniors who tell us
 that if they're not staffed, that there will be, they won't be able to go to a community center and enjoy their exercise. Charles Jordan took a chance on this city when he had this vision of what a world-class park system would look like. I'm asking you, my colleagues, take a chance. I am putting my effort, my office behind Commissioner Fish because I know he cares as passionately as I do about the people
 who are being impacted by this budget. And so I would be greatly appreciative as would all the hundreds of people I've heard from about Roundness Park's budget, if you would support my amendments. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Well, before I speak to the merits of the amendment, I would like to take the opportunity to respond to the very eloquent words of our newest colleague,
 because I've learned a number of things in the past couple of months about our newest colleague. And the one that I appreciate the most is that she is passionate about our park system. We have had councils in the past where we've had three or four different commissioners who have been past commissioners in charge of the Parks Bureau. And we always thought that was our secret weapon. We had the, the dais was all stacked with people that did it. But what I have come to appreciate is that my friend and colleague has a passion
 for Portland Parks and Rec and a genuine desire to see it be successful. And she and I agree on more than we disagree. We agree that there are no easy choices. We agree that parks is going to have to reinvent itself in order to be strong in the future. We agree that our employees are our greatest resource. We agree that the kinds of services we offer
 to particularly our most vulnerable members should never be compromised. One of the reasons why in my budget for the first time we shift general fund resources to fully fund senior rec and adaptive and inclusive. Two programs which every year had to go through the vagaries of the budget process and now are securely funded by general fund. Commissioner Hardesty, it is clear to me that whether your amendments pass or not,
 The hard work begins tomorrow of building a stronger foundation for a system. And Charles Jordan was one of the first people I met when I came to Oregon. And I remember his deep and powerful voice when he talked to you. And he would sometimes lull you into a conversation and then get to what he really wanted to say, which was to educate you about how he viewed the world and the importance of our system. I was so struck by the man that I asked the council to do something we do very rarely.
 which is we waived a rule that said you cannot honor someone while they're alive. And we renamed a community center after Charles Jordan at my request, the University Park Community Center, which is now proudly called the Charles Jordan Community Center. We named it in his honor and he joined us with his family and it was one of his last public events and it was one of the proudest days of my life when I previously had parks. Here's my commitment to you because I think there's very little daylight between our view of the future.
 I will work tirelessly to put parks on that stronger foundation. I will look at different models, both in terms of structure and funding that perhaps allow us to get out of this vicious cycle of every year making these kinds of choices because as commissioner in charge, I'm finished. We cannot continue to have these conversations with the community. They're too discouraging to the community. They're not fair and there is a better way. But more important, I've spent my life
 as a labor lawyer and as a civil rights lawyer, putting workers' rights first. I know that you take great pride in the work that you've done to advance the cause of workers. It has been the cause of my life. I have made a commitment in this process to do everything I can to find a position for employees that are targeted for layoff, either at parks or at the city, and we've gone one step further. We've come up with a pre-deployment process with HR
 that allows people to compete first for openings at the city for which their classification may now you're going to say and i can i can anticipate i can hear the voice in your head that those sound like good intentions but at the end of the day you'll be interested in the numbers and i will be transparent with the council on those numbers
 But my goal is to help every impacted employee find a home at the city, either at the Bureau, where we froze a lot of positions in February when we knew that we were having financial difficulties, or at the city. I will work tirelessly to make that happen. That's my commitment to you because you and I share a lot of values. Now, that said, I can't support your amendment, and I can't support it primarily for two reasons.
 I believe that withholding a COLA from an employee, regardless of their income, is a pay cut. We can have that argument, but I believe it's a pay cut because your earnings this year purchase less. The reason we give people a COLA, a cost-of-living increase, is so that their buying power stays at pace with rises in rents, rises in food, rises in cost of living.
 So it becomes a pay cut. And I think it's inequitable to just identify one class of employees, in this case ones that have no represented rights and therefore have the least voice, and say you're going to carry the burden disproportionate to others. So I think it's an inequitable way of doing it. I share the goal of doing everything I can to avoid layoffs and you have my commitment that I will try to do that and do my very best. I vote no. Hardesty? Do I have to vote now? How do I know whether it passes or not?
 You know, I can see the writing on the wall. And to say that I would be disappointed if the council votes down this one or the next one. You'll have another opportunity in just a moment. But only making that one speech one time. Okay, well, that's good. You'll need another one. This is the right thing to do.
 I believe employees making over, and we're not cutting people's pay because again, people will be getting this color next year. It is a delay rather than a pay cut. And you have to think about who are we talking about being impacted? We're talking about people who were classified for a long time as seasonal employees who were part-time, who had no benefits, who just recently...
 had the privilege of becoming full-time city employees with benefits. There are, this budget gives us the potential to remove classifications of parks employees. And those really are the employees that are at the bottom of the pay spectrum. I can tell you that me and my staff, we will be okay without a couple of thousand extra bucks this year.
 I think if you ask people making $80,000 or more, most would say, I'll survive. I can wait until next year for a couple of thousand more, especially if it's going to save other people's jobs. So I vote aye. Hugh Daly.
 Well, I appreciate Commissioner Hardesty's commitment to city workers and her attempt to preserve these positions. I need to point out that we all, we've all demonstrated a commitment to workers throughout our varied tenures and I believe that has been really lost in this debate. I especially feel the frustration and pain of community members who stand to lose beloved programs and instructors
 Parks and community centers are essential to the fabric of our neighborhoods and the health and resilience and quality of life of our communities. But I have faith in Commissioner Fish and Director Long. And after many conversations suggesting a variety of my own alternative scenarios, I really have to support the commissioner in charge and the director there.
 They're doing, they're in conjunction with Bureau of Human Resources, they're really going above and beyond to make sure that although positions are being eliminated, that that doesn't equal job loss for those employees and are minimizing as much as possible. The hardest part of this conversation for me has been the preschool at Selwood.
 I think that I know that there are other losses or reductions at community centers, and I'm hopeful for those employees and hopeful for those communities. I've spoken to Commissioner Fish's staff and they're also working diligently to come up with an alternative for the families that have registered for the fall program. I do wanna put a shout out for those preschools
 It's only three hours a day. It's not child care for working families, but it is really needed respite for parents. And it's also one of the... They're also one of the few preschools in the city that take children with disabilities. Private preschools are able to easily deny children with disabilities based on...
 limited criteria and so it's just especially sad to me that those opportunities are going to be reduced and I really hope we can work to bring them back sorry throughout this budget process I've heard from Portlanders who want to work with the city on stabilizing parks funding and I hope that offer still stands
 It's frustrating to see cuts at a time of relative economic prosperity, but I need to point out that that is in no small part due to the federal government divesting in things like affordable housing and transportation and our need to step up and fill in that gap. So there's a greater burden on local government with...
 costs increasing faster than revenue. I've lost my place a little bit. So the conversation has been, this conversation has been framed as divesting from police to invest in parks. Well, this is about COLA, but this is, I'm gonna refer to both. And while I clearly have issues and concerns with our police bureau, I think it presents us with a false choice and it definitely presents us with a short-term fix.
 I want to say that I'm very committed to finding a permanent revenue stream for housing programs and policies.
 and with the hope that that will take some of the pressure off of the general fund and that we won't be coming back every year after year having these parks conversations because this is my third budget process and parks have dominated the process every single year and as much as I love parks, we have other vitally important issues to talk about and to fund and they're just not getting heard.
 So regretfully, I vote no. Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for caring so much about parks. And as Commissioner Udaly and Commissioner Fisher said, that's absolutely a shared priority as are looking after employees. In my first budget back in 2009, I proposed freezing the COLA for non-reps. I think it was even over $80,000. It might have been $100,000 was the number. I lost one to four.
 And I learned a lot about the city structure, which is now even more challenging with the pay equity study and the compensation work that's been done in HR. So I would not be able to support, I can't support this motion not knowing what the implications would be on all of the delicate work that's been done in HR.
 Human resources and when some employees have already been told you don't get anything else except a cola because you're tapped out at the top of your pay range That is I it's a conversation that has to happen with our community our six thousand employees are 1300 or however many Non-represented employees there are they they deserve a voice in this conversation as well. I
 As I stated in my budget speech last year, my commitment to a vibrant park system began before I was elected to the council and will continue as long as I am on the council, whether I am the parks commissioner or not. And that commitment continues. I was advocating for Portland Parks long before I got on the council, and I probably will continue to do so after I've left. Every year that I was the commissioner in charge of parks, which was five and a half,
 it was a struggle to ensure that adequate resources were provided to keep a vibrant park system. Even though we received significant new ongoing funding,
 Thanks to Commissioner Fish and I always managing to find a third to get that ongoing funding. Every year we had to take actions like holding positions vacant for months when someone left mid-year and moving funds internally to stabilize programs and even borrowing to make sure that we ended up the fiscal year with a positive balance.
 These financial challenges have been building over many years, which is why I directed Parks to start work on a cost recovery policy, a fiscal sustainability study, and vision planning. Council provided funding for all of these projects in last year's budget, and they are in progress. While Council also decided to keep Selwood and Hillside open last year, instead of cutting them as I proposed in last year's budget.
 Because of the change of bureau assignments, the task of addressing the park's shortfalls transferred to Commissioner Fish. And I applaud the work that Commissioner Fish, his staff and park leadership have done to put together a plan, though while horribly difficult to accept, is nevertheless necessary. I particularly thank Claudia Compasano for working diligently first in the city budget office and then for parks, identifying the problem and then helping to evaluate the finances coming up with this plan.
 I'm also grateful to Interim Director Kia Selle and former Assistant Director Trang Lam for their diligence in working with the senior management team, including Equity Manager Art Hendricks, to minimize impacts on vulnerable staff and communities.
 And let's be clear, it's not only the recently hired rec workers who are having positions eliminated. It's throughout the Bureau, from the Director's Office on down. The only places where there are no layoffs, Commissioner Fish has prioritized some services. And urban forestry, since it's able to get fees, is also able to continue to protect our urban forest.
 I feel honored that I got to play a part in the changes in parks and I believe that those changes once we through work Through these current challenges will result in a more stable resilient sustainable organization parks needs permanent dedicated funding sources that will ensure the long-term viability of the park system and
 And we need parks, facilities and programs that use taxpayers' money and user fees in a sustainable, responsible manner. I can't support yet another one-time allocation to keep all the aging facilities open and all the programs running at this year's level. Parks and programming and facilities are crucial for the livability of Portland. And I hope that by next year's budget, we will have some options for keeping Portland Parks and Recreation a world-class system.
 and I do have great confidence in Commissioner Fish and New Parks Director, Edina Long. Thank you for your leadership in these times that are difficult in so many ways and calling the choices difficult is like calling childbirth uncomfortable. This is a sad, very sad parks budget and still it is necessary and I reluctantly vote no. Wheeler? I appreciate the discussion. I vote no. The motion fails.
 Hardesty Amendment No. 2, this is a motion to increase funding for Portland Parks and Recreation to avoid layoffs. Option 2. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Colleagues, you have another opportunity to fully fund parks. This proposal provides for...
 reducing as a Portland police bureau's budget so that we could fully fun. I park employees to ensure that there would be no layoffs now this also is part of the proposal that says that the gun violence reduction team. The name from being named the gang enforcement team.
 would give us the resources, quite frankly, to fully fund our park system if we would reduce the Portland Police Bureau's budget by a million dollars and then not buy body cams that we cannot afford, nor do we want, nor do they benefit the public at large. Budgets are a moral document, and it is the footprint...
 where we say we want to go. We can use pretty words. We could talk about valuing people. And I know that my colleagues all are people who have over the years stood up for working people, stood up to ensure that the most vulnerable voices who never make it into this room make it in.
 I think the conversation we had yesterday around the police budget and this gun violence reduction team was some of the most honest conversations I've ever seen in this building. But they cannot end once a budget is passed. Whether people want to acknowledge it or not,
 People experience the police in Portland differently based on their socioeconomic status, based on their race, based on what part of town they live in. And so to have a police officer sit in front of me who's been working in the street for 25 years saying, they don't know, people can walk away from their conversations, is not true. Not if you're black. Right.
 not if you're brown, not if you're a young person, not if you are houseless, not if you are powerless in our community. Mayor, as the police commissioner, I hope that you and I will have much deeper conversations about the need to do things a bit differently. I hope the police bureau will be open because over my 20 years of advocating for police reform,
 It is very clear to me that there is no desire for accountability within our police bureau. We are supposed to trust whatever comes out of the police bureau, whatever data they choose to provide to the public. And over and over and over, I know that I have not been told the truth. And it takes audits. It takes bringing a Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division of town.
 It takes independent people outside of Portland Police Bureau to tell us what's really going on. It takes me having conversations with people on the street on a regular basis. Let me just say that I know this is not a conversation at the moment about the police budget. But if we really were voting our values, if this budget really reflected our values...
 We would not be funding school resource officers. We would not be funding 28 officers to ride around looking for guns. We would not be holding money back to hire more police officers into a system that is dysfunctional. When I've heard my colleagues say, well, there's good and bad in a gang enforcement unit slash gun violence reduction team.
 There is no good when 59% of the people that look like you are stopped, searched, harassed on a regular basis with no trail to determine why that was so. There are not two sides to this. There is justice. There is fairness. We have an opportunity by defunding a department that needs a lot of help.
 to fund a department that has risen over and over and over again to serve the people in the city of Portland. I am disappointed that this probably will also go down in flaming defeat. And I am okay with that because, you know, this has been the first open, honest conversation that I believe we've participated in on what kind of city we want to have. Being a new kid on the block,
 Let me just say that, yes, I know what my bureaus are, but I see that just like me, other people understand that I was not elected to just care about fire and just care about 911 and just care about the Bureau of Emergency Management. I care deeply about those bureaus, and I love the fact that I have the honor of working with those fine men and women.
 But I don't live in a bubble. I don't live in a silo. And the people who elected me did not elect me to think in a silo. So I want to be clear to my colleagues. I in no way mean any disrespect to any of you. I know how hard we all work. In fact, before I got here, I couldn't figure out why you guys spent so much time in this building. I understand that a lot better now. I mean no disrespect to any of you. I know the caliber of people I'm working with.
 But I would not be true to myself and my value system if I didn't do everything in my power to make sure that we had a public conversation about whether or not we are investing based on our values or we are investing based on what we've always done. And so you have my proposal.
 And I will be happy to see what my colleagues have to say. Mayor. Commissioner Udaly. Just a point of clarification. Commissioner Hardesty, you still have three amendments to
 I have two, I believe, left. I believe only one other. Amendment two is on the table. And that has to do with body-worn camera program being defined. Yeah, I have it, but I was just confused. Okay, so most of her comments were to her third amendment. Yeah, okay. All right.
 I just wanted to make sure that there wasn't an amended amendment I was missing. No, no, no. I did replace one with one, but I don't have any additional ones. Got it. Okay. So we're on parks option two. Yes. I'm good. Very good. Any further discussion? I'll just add one point. I know that there are...
 is a strong desire to have conversations about police bureau policy. I had a conversation with Commissioner Udalli this morning and I think a very fine idea would be for us to actually have public work sessions on some of these issues surrounding policing policy, whether it's body worn cameras, whether it's the gun violence reduction team,
 whether it is school resource officers or other issues, I think it would be helpful for us to at least hear the same information at the same time, be able to ask questions with everybody in the room, hear from some people with lived experience who are directly impacted by some of the programs,
 so that next year people don't feel pressured into using the budget process as the only opportunity or the only on-ramp for meaningful dialogue around policy. And that's something I would strongly
 encourage and I'll be discussing that with my colleagues, but that's something I'd certainly like to do. I believe the police bureau would be very interested in that concept as well, because there is a lot of confusion and sometimes misinformation about what these policies actually are and what they mean and what the implications are for the community. So I do appreciate that opportunity and I'll get back to each of you as to whether or not that's something that would be worthwhile.
 I appreciate that, Mayor. I also want to say there's also legitimate disagreements about the policy, not just confusion. Fair enough. Yeah, absolutely. And it has been really frustrating to sit here for two and a half years and have so little opportunity to get down to the brass tacks and the police bureau. Because while it does sit in your portfolio, it's something that...
 we are all held accountable for and that's something that impacts our entire community. And I appreciate your willingness to invite our input and to also help us
 Well, I think achieve greater transparency and understanding about the bureau. Yeah, that is fair, and your point is well taken. And frankly, from my perspective, there's a lot that I'm proud of that we've been working on in the police bureau, and I'd like to have the opportunity to showcase that as well. Very good. Any further discussion, Commissioner Fish? No, no, just Very good. Carla, please call the roll on motion two. Fish? Yes.
 I am not prepared to make fundamental change in Police Bureau policy through an amendment to the Mayor's proposed budget, particularly on an issue like body cameras, where I have in the past supported the program.
 Commissioner Hardesty has raised some significant concerns with the program, which I'm interested in learning more about. And so as we move forward, based on the mayor's commitment, I look forward to the opportunity to have a robust discussion about this program and to hear all my colleagues' views. But I'm not prepared to support changes as an amendment to the mayor's proposed. No. Hardesty? Thank you. This is my opportunity. Okay.
 I did not know that there were other opportunities to talk about body-worn cameras or the gun reduction, violence reduction team slash gang enforcement team, because we... I mean, what, we get the budget? We get your budget May 1st? May 14th? We're ready to vote. That is not ample time to have big public policy conversations.
 Now, maybe because I'm new, I don't know that these conversations may have happened somewhere else out of the public eye. I appreciate you, Mayor, saying that you are committed to work sessions around these issues. And these are issues that impact everyone in the city of Portland. I want to be clear. I am not against our police force. Over the last 20-some years, I have met and worked with some wonderful Portland police officers.
 some excellent Portland police officers. I know Portland police officers who've retired without ever pulling their weapons. Those aren't the ones we hire back after they retire, though, most of the time. What I am opposed to is year in and year out getting reports of who's being stopped and who's being searched and it just being accepted as fact.
 Chief Rosie Sizer in 2011 presented the first stop data. And colleagues, I want you to know those numbers have not moved at all since 2011. I wonder how the white community would feel if 59% of them were being stopped annually. They only represented 6% of the population.
 I wonder what other community could have such a lopsided enforcement without the city council being outraged. But since 2011, African Americans and Latinos have shared the story of how they encounter law enforcement and nothing. You may know that I consider myself, quite frankly, the expert on the settlement agreement.
 between the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division and the city of Portland, because I was on the other side begging the Department of Justice to come here because there was no justice in the city of Portland for African Americans and others who share my experience of policing in the city of Portland. I am the expert on the Department of Justice settlement agreement.
 I have been at this much longer than I've been in this seat. So I come with that experience, with that worldview, with that community perspective. And I am woefully disappointed that we are not stopping the over-policing of African Americans while we seek to get it right. I vote yes for my amendment. You daily?
 Similarly to Commissioner Fish, I'm not prepared to support an amendment not fully understanding the impact of the changes to the police budget. But I do want to go on the record stating two things. This situation, I think, shows how problematic it is for new commissioners coming in in the middle of the budget process.
 and the fact that we don't get to have policy conversations before we get to this point in the budget. So I have also tried to dig into policy issues during the budget conversation. It's, I guess, not the best place to do it, but sometimes it feels like it's the only place to do it. And I also want to go on record as saying that I...
 I have kind of growing doubts about the effectiveness and utility of body cams. And I'm really looking forward to that conversation because while I'm not going to support this amendment, I'm not necessarily in support of us moving forward with a...
 policy that has nationally not shown to be consistently effective and may be incredibly expensive to us moving forward for data storage. I vote no. Fritz? I truly appreciate Commissioner Hardesty and her staff looking for more funding for parks.
 I just wish there was a way that we could keep the programs going. This proposal is about body worn cameras. That decision was made in a public hearing after we heard lots of testimony. I think you may even have participated in that session. I know that lots of community members did on both sides.
 And so that's how we need to make if we're going to change it and like Commissioner Udeli I'm very open to revisiting that discussion but it needs to be done in a public hearing in the same way that Commissioner Hardesty led us to revisit the Joint Terrorism Task Force involvement and so as much as I would
 like to find new funding for parks, this can't be it. I've also been struck, we had hundreds of emails from community members about parks funding, and I really appreciate everybody who's written in. I am woefully behind in my emails. I think I have 13,000 built up in my public inbox. And I was really struck by how many people who are passionate about parks and also said, and don't cut police because we need community safety as well. And so it's
 I'm grateful that more community members are joining us five on the council in grappling with how then do we pay for all the services and maybe we need new funding. Maybe there's multiple things that now we're going to have even more urgency to look at so that we can, particularly for a program for it.
 Service like parks which may seem optional, but I don't believe it is I believe we need to find a way to get get stable funding And I'm as I said very open to having a further discussion about body-worn cameras. No wheeler I vote no the motion fails Amendment 3 motion to eliminate the Portland police boroughs gun violence reduction team by realigning general fund resources and staffing resources to other programs further discussion I
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say I've already spoken to that measure. I want to thank Commissioner Udalli for seconding my motions so that we could have the conversation. I think it's important that these conversations happen out in the daylight in public and that the public knows that we are making decisions based on
 whatever information we have that we are allowing, participating in, in the public process. I want to appreciate my colleagues. I appreciate your patience as we've gone through this process. If there is a better process to advocate for the things that I think reflect the values of Portlanders, then please share it with me. And I'd be happy to participate in that process.
 As you know, I was elected citywide, just like the rest of you. And so I get the privilege of representing people citywide on issues that aren't in my portfolio. And so I thank you colleagues. I am disappointed. No surprise there. I am absolutely disappointed that we will have employees that will lose their jobs because
 think that that's a good result. I hope that Charles Jordan will ultimately be proud of the work that this council does because he put his heart and soul into building us a world-class park system.
 And I feel for our new director who I can't imagine starting day one and being told, by the way, you need to cut $6 million out of your budget and have a good day. Can't imagine that. But I want to thank you all. And we will get on to the business of passing a budget. Thank you. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? No. Hardesty? Yes. Udaly? No.
 I'm going to characterize this as a protest vote. I'm not really happy with either alternatives. I want answers to my questions that I've now asked three years in a row. I want more opportunities for us to discuss and decide as a body with public input on police policy.
 When I ask for a rationale for police staffing or allocation of resources, I expect an answer, and I'm going to say it again. I'm really struggling with the resources we put into the gun violence reduction team when we have
 dozens of people dying on our streets, hundreds of people being seriously injured, and thousands of people in traffic collisions. And we put so little resources into traffic enforcement. We cannot simply engineer and educate our way out of this problem. People are flagrantly disregarding the law and taking other people's lives into their own hands and it's a public safety crisis at this point in my mind.
 and I'm really looking forward to having that conversation. I vote yes. Fritz. It has been a good conversation, and I appreciate all of my colleagues for engaging in it. As I said yesterday, when we had the gang enforcement team, now known as the gun violence reduction team discussion at council,
 In the limited time that I've had that this issue has come to the fore, I've heard from the police, I've heard from Commissioner Hardesty, I've heard from people who were gang involved and who are now saying that this program is something that they want. They repeatedly said that they want the gang violence reduction team officers to respond to them and that they believe this is a program that is absolutely crucial. Yes, Commissioner...
 You daily, I share your concern that we need to also prioritize traffic safety. And this gun violence is disproportionately impacting people of color and they are dying as well. And so without more information, I cannot support cutting this at this time. No. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 I would look forward to further discussions around traffic safety. I agree with Commissioner Udalli that the enforcement piece needs to be in alignment with the engineering and the education piece, and
 There are conversations to be had there, and in a prior conversation that I had with the commissioner, I also noted that that traffic enforcement division also plays a critical role in other public safety matters, including large public events in our community, and we should have that conversation and speak with the folks who run that team and what their perceptions are and what their recommendations would be to us as well. I vote no, the motion fails.
 I believe that completes all of the amendments that are on the table, colleagues. Now we have one arcane step here. We need to vote to approve all the budget adjustments as amended in attachments B, C, and D of the memo as amended by the individual floor amendments. And to do that, I need a motion to approve the changes to the proposed budget as presented in the memo. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fisch, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Just to be clear,
 This is not a vote to approve the budget, rather this is a vote to include and approve the adjustments that we've discussed and then after that we'll vote on the budget. Today, absolutely, today. So with that, we now have, do we actually have to vote on that? Is that correct, Robert? So please call the roll.
 Ms. As I understand this just puts the whole matter now before us. Mr. Puts it on the table. Mr. And we vote up or down. Mr. Correct. Ms. Aye. Ms. Vardisti? Udailey? Ms. Aye. Ms. Fritz? Ms. Aye. Ms. Wheeler? Mr. Aye. Okay. Now I will entertain a motion and a second to approve the budget as amended. This is the vote. Ms. Motion to approve the budget. Ms. Second. Mr. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Ms. Fish.
 It's late and we've been working at this for a long time, but Mayor, if you could bear with me, I have a few comments I'd like to make. In my view, one of the most significant things we do is craft a budget. I believe it's also the most significant thing that a mayor is judged by, his or her ability to craft a budget and gain support for that budget. And so I think it's important as we now reflect on the budget before us, that we take a moment
 and look where we've come from and where we're going. Thank you, Mayor, and I want to thank you at the outset for introducing a new budget process this year. It required us to think about bureaus and their budgets in a new way and to build the budget from the ground up. And I think it was a significant improvement and I hope we continue to go down this path and enhance it. I'm pleased to support this budget.
 The process was collaborative and ultimately the budget is responsive to community concerns and reflects many of our shared priorities as a council. It also advances a number of my priorities, including significant investments in supportive housing, including funding for deep rental subsidies and services for people struggling with homelessness, mental health challenges and addiction, continued support for brownfield remediation or work to convert contaminated land into productive community use,
 Funding for the Portland Film Office, which supports film production in Portland. Seed funding to support the Albina Vision, a community-driven plan for redeveloping the Rose Quarter and repairing the damage done by urban renewal. Establishing the Age-Friendly Coordinator position in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to guide the city's work on age-friendly services and practices. And launching a Dark Skies initiative, also in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, to reduce urban light pollution.
 and finally our support for the Portland Rose Festival, our official festival. The budget also includes significant one-time funding for the Parks Bureau to continue summer programming, to keep Columbia Pool open for another year, and to transition other new other spaces to new models. And the Parks Bureau will also receive much-needed ongoing funds for operations and maintenance of new parks and playgrounds, including many in East Portland.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your partnership and your vital support of our parks in this budget. I want to acknowledge that there were no easy fixes for the $6.3 million structural gap that parks faced. The more we looked at it, the more we realized that one-time funding was not the solution. They would only extend the problem for another year, allowing it to grow and to worsen.
 It would be a disservice to our community, to parks employees, to the council stated goals of equity, affordability, and fiscal responsibility to avoid addressing the root cause of the budget gap, the Bureau's budget model. The Bureau and its Budget Advisory Committee put together a thoughtful, balanced approach to closing the $6.3 million gap. They prioritized equity, long-term financial sustainability, safety, and maintenance.
 And with the one-time support in this budget, the transition will be on a timeline that continues summer programming and provides additional time for the Bureau, its workforce, and the community to plan for the future. Now a word to our workforce. This budget affects 50 people directly and includes potential layoffs of deeply valued colleagues. Parks and Human Resources are working closely with each affected person. Our goal is to help affected people find other positions at the City.
 Parks has already shared with me that about half of the people affected, assuming a July 1 set of layoffs, can be moved to other positions within the Parks Bureau. And for those who can't, we're looking at positions at the city. Parks is also providing support, including career counseling, interview coaching, skills assessments, and resume and cover letter help, both in workshops and one-on-ones. Thanks.
 We're grateful to our partners at the Bureau of Human Resources for the new initiative that they've launched to prioritize affected employees for hiring in certain classes citywide, and affected employees are specifically invited to participate. Colleagues, I'm committed to continuing the hard work of stabilizing the Parks Bureau and building towards a sustainable future. That includes looking at new models for funding and delivering the services the public expects. And I will have more to say about this important effort later.
 Again, Mayor, thank you again for your leadership and collaboration on this year's budget. I want to thank my colleagues. This has been a very spirited budget season. I've learned a lot from each of you, and I appreciate the collaboration from each colleague and their offices. I also want to thank my bureau teams, Directors Jordan and Adina Long. Adina Long is probably looking to see whether there's a clause in her contract, which gives her an opt-out after three months. We are lucky in the city of Portland to have leaders
 like Mike Jordan and Adina Long, leading bureaus, and I have the great honor of working with them and their senior leadership teams. I also want to say a word about my team. Of course, it is the prerogative of each of us up here to say we have the best teams in City Hall, except I really do. I have a team that has been together for some time that is very deep, is deeply committed to public service. I don't want to get emotional as I say this, but...
 They have stepped up when their commissioner has not always been at his best. And I cannot think of a greater compliment that I can pay to my team than when I have not been able to do my work at the level that I have come to expect. They have made it seem to the public that we haven't missed a beat. In fact, they remind me we've done some of our best work during my health stretch.
 So to Sonia Schmansky and to the senior and to all the people, the public servants who work in my office, I just want you to know that it is a joy to come to work every day and to have a chance to work with people of your quality. It's pure public service at its best, and I'm very fortunate. So with all of that, it is now time to vote, and I vote aye. Hardesty? It's not fair to make me cry before I give my response to the budget.
 But what an eloquent statement and how wonderful that you have staff that have stepped in and kept your office running like a fine oil machine. Needless to say that I am disappointed that we were not willing to vote our values today and invest in the people that make the city of Portland great.
 I've heard from the day I got here, there's no money. There's no money. There's a deficit. We can't do things. But yet, we know where piles of money are located in a police budget. The budget is a moral document. I've talked about how it's funded, speaks to our values. But I also want to add how it's created also speaks to our values, right?
 The public and council only scratched the surface in discussions over where our money goes. And quite frankly, I'd like to get a whole lot less reports and spend much more time talking public policy in these chambers. Had we engaged in a robust discussion, I believe we could have done more to make decisions that supported what our community asked of us.
 especially as council is just hearing about the 1.6 million going to school resource officers, despite students and community members saying they want no part of school resource officers. And the city auditor's report that came out today talking about the 800K parks golf courses received to stay afloat, and they continue to have budget deficit and problems as well. But we didn't get a chance to talk about that.
 Now, I wasn't so naive as to expect my colleagues to just jump on board of my proposal, but I did hope that they would take pieces of it, seriously consider it. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make the budget process as inclusive and participatory as possible for next year. I want to collaborate with everyone to work creatively together on a budget that
 the city can be proud of. And that means bringing the conversation and planning at the front end and not treating it as a footnote once the public gets outraged. I am hopeful because we have made some gains in this budget. I am excited that we will be funding the Portland Street Response.
 The mayor has included the Portland Street Response, the census, anti-displacement, health and wellness coordination for fire and rescue. All those asks were incorporated into the budget. And I'm sure there's some people saying, well, why weren't you satisfied? Shouldn't you be happy? You got what you asked for. I am not happy because there are still losers in this budget and they are fine city employees.
 I'm not 100% happy because I believe a collaborative process would have given us a better end product. I look forward to moving forward. But before I give my vote, I want to acknowledge the incredible team that I have. Now, you say you got the best team. I'm sorry. You know I love you dearly. However, comma. I've got the best budget analysts on the planet. Yeah.
 Kristen Johnson, who has been extraordinary in helping me understand this very complicated $5.6 billion budget. And I believe her when she says we could do this. We could do the right thing and not lose one employee. I want to thank Matt McNally. I can never remember the title that he has here at the city, but he's my community organizer and he does a fabulous job.
 Every time I come into this chamber when it's filled top to bottom and we got overflow rooms, I've done my job right. I want to thank my incredible chief of staff, Carly Edwards, who isn't here at the moment, but she has done fabulous work to help us stay focused on our vision. And last but not least, Derek Bradley, who is a very cool policy dude.
 Even though he is one of the sharpest dressers at City Hall, he still spends a lot of time doing the work that I've hired him to do. I support a lot of things in this budget. However, I am voting no. You daily.
 Well, as I mentioned before, this is my third budget process. And while each year has been different, my frustrations remain the same. And those frustrations are around how hard it is to have a conversation about the various competing priorities and urgent issues we face when they're drowned out by a single issue. And I think we did better this year, but obviously there's still room for improvement on the public engagement piece.
 Our budget is a statement of our values and priorities, and I think we mostly got it right, and we're wisely allocating our limited resources. I say mostly because our budget process always involves compromise. We each gave up things that were important to us and accepted the inclusion of things that were not in the interest of the greater good.
 Because almost none of the items that I was fighting for in the budget got any play In the media or in the public. I'm just going to mention a few things that I'm really proud to see pass What first and foremost is full funding for the Joint Office of Homeless Services? Which last year served? 35,000 individuals either experiencing or facing imminent homelessness and
 Two, we increased funding for the rental services office, which serves landlords and tenants. Tenants make up nearly half of our population. We're in the midst of a housing crisis. It's important that we get this office beyond up and running and to fully functional in order to advance the work we want to, continued work we want to do around tenant protection and housing. Three is census funding.
 I'm a little disappointed that we didn't get full funding. I want to mention that we scraped our budget. I really hate that term. Can someone tell me a different term? Scrubbed. Scrubbed. We scrubbed our budget. Yeah, yeah. There was no scrubbing involved. So...
 At Civic Life, which is a small bureau with a shoestring budget and we came up with $125,000 in savings We are still using FileMaker Pro in Civic Life So there are certainly things that we might have wanted to spend some of that money on but instead we're sending spending on on-census and specifically
 convening the city's joint efforts with other agencies and philanthropic organizations
 to count hard to count communities, which will mean a lot in dollars for our state. It will mean an additional, it's almost guaranteed to mean an additional congressional seat. And it also paints a better picture of who is here in our community and therefore how we need to allocate our resources differently in the future. So I'm really proud of that and I appreciate the Mayor
 Funding two hundred fifty thousand dollars of that fourth is the anti displacement directive through BPS Which was one of my directives we adopted? 11 anti displacement measures in our comp plan and at some point I realized well that is a great plan But who is going to hold us accountable? for those
 anti-displacement measures and that began a conversation and has resulted in this anti-displacement directive which I'm really excited to get to work on. I'm almost done 3-1-1 I just want to take this opportunity to say Portland please stop using 9-1-1 as customer service.
 We have an information and referral line. It's 823-4000. We have a police non-emergency line, but those calls do go ultimately to 911. So if it's non-urgent and non-emergency, call information and referral.
 50%, roughly 50% of the phone calls to 911 are low-priority, non-urgent, non-emergency. And what those calls mean is longer wait times on the phone for people who are in legitimate and possibly life-threatening emergency, as well as longer arrival times for aid. We really need to stop, and I think 311 is essential to taking on...
 chunk of that burden as well as just providing much better customer service to our Community members finally, I'm really excited about the street response team Looking forward to see how that develops So in closing I just want to thank my colleagues. I'm gonna thank my staff especially my policy team Who worked on the budget Marshall Runkle Jamie Duhamel went to Johannes and Polly Burge and
 Thank you to my bureaus and bureau staff, and especially to community members. I know that like me, many of you didn't get everything that you wanted, but I hope you appreciate the hard work that went into this budget and the hard decisions we had to make. I vote aye. Fritz.
 So this is my 11th budget cycle. Every year has been a unique experience. This is my first budget when I had a utility bureau, despite my title being the Commissioner of Public Utilities. I am the second woman ever to be in charge of the Portland Water Bureau. And we were able to set rates and ensure that adequate funding is available for operations, maintenance, and capital projects. What a concept.
 It is much more efficient than having to agonize over every line item detail like we have today, which has been my previous experience with all general fund bureaus, and particularly parks. I'm very grateful to Commissioner Fish both for restoring public trust in the utilities and for partnering with me since the Water Bureau was assigned to me to ensure continued seamless collaboration between the two utility bureaus.
 I remain committed to establishing a 311 system and I so appreciate Mayor Wheeler being the first mayor I've worked with who shares my belief that this basic service is a priority. I believe the program should continue to be coordinated by the Office of Management and Finance and thanks to our amendments adopted today, this conversation will involve all council offices over the next year while still ensuring adequate ongoing funding for the program as it develops.
 I do thank Mayor Wheeler for supporting funding of many of my priorities and those of our colleagues on the council. As she just alluded to, Commissioner Eudaly submitted directions to develop funding to address displacement, rental services and the census, all of which the Mayor supports, as do the rest of us. Commissioner Hardesty championed the Portland Street Response in partnership with Street Roots and the Mayor. And there is funding for developing a nurse triage program in the 911 Centre as well.
 The Mayor is preserving the rapid response vehicles in the fire bureau which results in Portland Fire and Rescue being the only bureau not held to across the board 1% cuts mandated in the Mayor's initial instructions.
 The Mayor continues funding for Portland United Against Hate, which is a shared priority of the Council, now transitioning to community management. I was worried that without a Bureau Champion, Portland United Against Hate might get lost, and I appreciate Mayor Wheeler for making sure its funding continues. And the Mayor works with Commissioner Fish to fund a transition for parks, including almost $700,000 in ongoing resources, as well as around $4 million in one-time funding.
 That's almost one third of the available new ongoing funding and almost a quarter of the available one time dollars. And still, this is not a good result for parks. Usually at this vote, I feel a sense of hope and satisfaction, always with a touch of frustration as Commissioner, you daily alluded to, we never get everything we want. Today, I'm sad.
 This has been a really hard process, especially for community members and staff affected by these cuts. And I wish that there had been another way. I was not able to find it and I did not see another way forward in a way that I could support as I mentioned earlier. So that's sad. Moving to the things that I'm happy about. I thank the Mayor for including funding for a new position in the Office of Equity and Human Rights to work on disability issues.
 And Mayor Wheeler also included funding for a joint request from Human Resources and Equity for an accommodation fund to be administered by Human Resources to ensure that employees who need accommodations are provided for.
 Perhaps the line item giving the most joy for the lowest allocation is in this $5.5 billion budget, is the $5,000 that Mayor Wheeler has allocated to the diverse empowered employees of Portland for affinity group events open to the community that celebrate city employees' histories, identities and values.
 I cannot begin to describe the glee with which this allocation was received, and I can also not describe the good that this money is going to do.
 I'm grateful that the strength programs, girl strength, women's strength, boy strength, were restored from potential cut in the police bureau using internal realignments, as the mayor has assured me. The strength programs might just be the most popular program administered by the police bureau. Cutting them would have resulted in a strategic blunder and losing a nationally renowned program that aims to get upstream of domestic violence and human trafficking crimes.
 I know we can't bind future councils, but if we could, I would put an invincible shield around the strength programs to keep them funded for the foreseeable future.
 The budget includes funding for a historic resources study as we passed earlier. I believe this is important both to preserve buildings that are historically significant and to inform our unreinforced masonry buildings discussion. We need to identify those URM buildings that are worthy of preserving and develop a system which will encourage them to be retrofitted. I appreciate the council's support for my amendment allocating the one-time funding to reduce fees while the study is in progress.
 I look forward to the discussions regarding the future process for allocating cannabis funds in a more open and equitable manner. Commissioner Udeli and I will work closely with all council offices to bring a proposal to the council on how to address the concerns raised in the audit of the cannabis tax, as well as the original language of the measure and intent of the council when it was referred in 2016 to involve the entire council in choosing ongoing and one-time allocations.
 In this year's budget, we have allocated nearly $1 million of cannabis tax revenues for business development and small grants for communities impacted by cannabis prohibition, and $500,000 for permanent supportive housing, which I think may be the first ongoing allocation for permanent supportive housing, which is a cause for rejoicing.
 as well as continued funding of Vision Zero projects and the police traffic division. I want another invincible shield for the Vision Zero and permanent supportive housing funding. These are exactly the new investments that I envisioned when I worked so hard to refer and pass the tax. Thank you to all the Portlanders who engaged in this process.
 to each of my colleagues, especially Mayor Wheeler, to the Chiefs of Staff, especially Kristen Dennis, the Mayor's Chief of Staff, and Sonja Szymanski, Commissioner Fishes, Jessica Kennard and the City Budget Team, amazing work.
 My bureau directors, Dr. Markeisha Smith in equity and Mike Stewart in water. And to my staff, you know, I'm the mother of three, and each of my children is my favorite child. And I could tell you why each of them is my favorite child. My staff are my favorite staff. And I'm really grateful to Claire Adam-Sick, Cynthia Canstro, Christina Nieves, Yesenia Carrillo, Mi-San Kwan, and especially my chief of staff, Tim Crail. Hi. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 Well, first of all, I want to thank my colleagues and their staff. I definitely want to give a big shout-out to Interim Budget Director Jessica Kennard. She not only had to...
 step up in a big way. She did it while we were reforming the budget process. So it wasn't just about creating the budget, making sure it balanced, making sure our priorities were included in the budget. It was also reforming the budget to go to a completely different platform that is more accountable and transparent, and completely reworking the public engagement process. And so I want to thank you and your entire team for that. I want to thank all of the bureau directors who spent
 lots and lots of time working with all of us in this room to make sure that their interests were clear and that their budget opportunities were clearly elucidated for me in the proposed budget and all of us who are working on it. On my team, Kristen Dennis, my Chief of Staff, spent, I don't know what, millions of hours. Millions of hours it seemed. Most of her time over the course of the last
 what, three to four months. Andrea Valderrama, who spent a tremendous amount of time on this budget, I thank everyone on my team who did that. The community at large always shapes the budget, always helps us focus on the priorities, always helps us ascertain strategies and solutions that we don't always see ourselves.
 I wanna just put one marker down. I agree with those who identify the parks issue as being significant. It is a structural deficit. It requires a long-term strategy that provides sustainable funding and keeps our costs in alignment. And I do trust Commissioner Fish as the commissioner in charge and Adina Long as the director of that bureau to work with all of us and find a solution, bring it back, and we look forward to that.
 I vote aye. The budget is approved as amended. Colleagues, we have just a couple more items here and then we will be done.
 State statute well, they'll let Jessica say so as a final step state statute requires the Budget Committee to approve the tax levies The mayor will now read a script to call for the vote. So I didn't write this This is from ORS the city shall levy its full permanent rate of four point five seven seven zero per $1,000 of assessed value and fifteen million forty two thousand six hundred and forty six dollars for the payment of voter approved general obligation bond principal and interest and
 and $168,768,476 for the obligations for the Fire and Police Disability and Retirement Fund and
 $.4026 per thousand of assessed value for the children's levy. Furthermore, the City shall levy the amount listed in the attachment E for urban renewal collections. Can I get a motion and a second? So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. A very fast second from Commissioner Hardesty on approving the tax levies. Could we have any further discussion on the tax levies?
 Thank God, no. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Well, I've prepared some lengthy remarks. Aye. Not if you want to live. I'm not so sure about that some days. Thank you to the taxpayers of Portland, and that's the money that we're investing in this budget. Aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The tax levies are approved.
 So now that the budget's been approved by council, the approved budget will be sent to the Tax Supervising and Conservation Commission, the TSCC, for review. The TSCC has 20 days to review the budget. They will then conduct a hearing on the city's approved budget on Tuesday, June 11th at 10 a.m. in council chambers. Then final budget adoption is set for Wednesday, June 12th at 2 p.m. here. Public testimony can be provided at the June 11th TSCC hearing and the June 12th budget adoption hearing.
 The meeting of the City of Portland Budget Committee is now adjourned. Colleagues, we are now going to reconvene the Prosper Portland Budget Committee. Is this a point of clarity? How many more do we have to do? Do we have Prosper? Are we doing the rates as well? I mean the... What were we supposed to do on Prosper? We were just about to do that. I just wondered how many more items do we have, Carla? Prosper is left and I have one quick amendment and then we're done.
 So, colleagues, where we left off on the Prosper Portland Budget Item 478 was we have already heard the presentation. We have already taken public testimony.
 I have one technical amendment that's been offered by Prosper Portland. The Prosper staff can come up. As you will recall, in the city budget, we allocated $17,000 to Prosper Portland for Venture Portland's feasibility of the Frog Ferry water taxi service. We need to do that here as well, so I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. And now.
 Please call the roll. No, that wasn't Hottest Do. I'm sorry, Commissioner Udaly. Please call the roll. It was Fritz. It was me. Fritz. It was Fritz? No, it was right there. Okay, who did not offer the second? Please raise your hand. If you did not offer the second to the front fair. It was moved and seconded by Fritz. Let's move on. It was Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Commissioner Fritz. Fritz. Fritz. Hardesty? No. Udaly? Aye. Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Motion carries. I'm now calling to entertain a motion to vote to approve the budget adjustments in Exhibit A of the Resolution 7311 as amended. We have a motion from Commissioner Frisch, a second from Commissioner Daley. Any further discussion please call the roll. Fisch? Aye. Hardesty?
 I just want to quickly say that I wanted to make sure that we work with Prosper to make sure that people who've been impacted by bad marijuana law are going to benefit from the business opportunities that this budget provides. Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? I vote aye. The budget is approved as amended. Any further discussion?
 Very good. The meeting of the Prosper Portland Budget Committee is now adjourned. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you, everyone.