Carly, you ready? Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the May 28th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll, Carly? Fish. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome, everybody. Let me set the stage here with some procedures that we follow in council meetings.
 First, the purpose of city council meetings is obviously the orderly consideration of the public's business. So courtesy and decorum are really important here in this chamber. And that's why we welcome everyone in a wide variety of points of view into the discussions that we have here. During this meeting, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comment on the agenda items that we have today. We don't have council communications this afternoon. We just have regular agenda items.
 If you're here to testify, please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under our code, you need to disclose that information, please, at the start of your testimony. If you're here representing a nonprofit organization or an organization in the community, please disclose that as well. It's not required, but we appreciate it.
 Typically on a calendar where we have a lot of people signed up, and I think we do this afternoon, we'll allow two minutes in individual testimony. Obviously, we have a land use case this afternoon, and we'll go through the particular times associated with that. Please testify only to the matter at hand. If you have handouts, please give them to the council clerk so that she can distribute them to us.
 We have these rules of procedure, again, to preserve the public order and the record and the right for everyone to be heard. Any conduct that disrupts that process, like shouting during the council meeting, which unfortunately we've had in a previous case, is really unacceptable because it does prevent your fellow citizens from being heard.
 and it can't be allowed. So please, if you want to show your support or your opposition to one of your fellow citizens' points of view, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a thumbs down, but we ask that you not make vocal demonstrations in favor or against your fellow citizens' points of view so they get to express them. And therefore, I have to express this warning that anybody that disrupts the proceedings may be escorted from the council chambers and excluded from city hall.
 We did, as I mentioned, have a disruption at a previous land use hearing, and we had to exclude a couple of people, and that's sad. Regarding today's meeting, we have a lot of people signed up here today. We have an overflow room in the Portland building for those that aren't able to fit into the council chambers today.
 We'll go through the process here of what is involved in a contested case land use hearing in terms of the times of presentation, and then we'll have the clerk call people up to testify. She'll read three names in order to come up to the table, and then names from the next group so that people can be on deck.
 So if you're in the Portland building in the overflow room and you hear your name called, please come on over, and that way you'll be here on deck ready to testify when the group that's already up is done.
 Let's see. Again, because of the number of people that we have signed up, I think two minutes apiece. We sometimes allow three, but I think in order to have everybody get heard, we're going to go with two minutes for testimony. There's a clock in front of us that at 90 seconds you'll hear a beep and a light. That indicates you've got 30 seconds left. At two minutes you'll hear four beeps and the lights will flash, and that's so that the next person can speak. So please close at that point.
 At 6 p.m., I'm planning to close the hearing because council members have other business, so I think we can get through it all by then. Unless council states otherwise, at the end of the hearing, if we're unable to hear testimony today from everyone who signs up and wishes to speak, we'll continue to accept written testimony for the next two weeks, which is our typical practice, and then reconvene at a later date for appellants' rebuttal statements and deliberations. Thank you.
 We'll make an announcement at the end of the hearing about times and dates for accepting written testimony and counsel deliberation if we do follow that process. So just to be clear, today is the day for oral testimony. We'll again take additional written testimony if we're not able to hear from everybody in person. I think that's the procedure that I need to go through. So why don't you read the item and then we'll ask the city attorney to go through the land use process. And I'll need to ask about ex parte contacts and conflicts of interest.
 Item 547, appeal of Portland Water Bureau and Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association against Historic Landmarks Commission's decision to approve with conditions a proposal to disconnect the Mount Tabor reservoirs from the public drinking water system at Mount Tabor Park located at 6325 Southeast Division Street, LU14218444HREM.
 Great. Thank you. So maybe I should start with that declaration. This is a contested case land use hearing, and under state law, we're required to disclose if we have had any ex parte
 communications, meaning outside of this formal state prescribed process, or if we have any conflicts of interest. Anyone have anything to state? Mayor, my office has received lots of e-mails and phone calls and visits, and we've screened the commissioner in charge the way we do on all contested land use hearings. Okay.
 Anything else? I got a couple of emails. I don't know if she's actually a party, but a couple of emails from Floyd Jones that came to my personal emails. I forwarded them to my work account, did not review them in any detail whatsoever. Okay. Anything else? Anyone have any questions about those declarations? If not, then I'll turn it over to the city attorney to walk us through the process. Can I just raise a point of order? Sure. Because this is an important topic for the community, I just wonder, I don't know that we're on TV. Well, I think we are. We will be.
 I think we're having some technical difficulties working on it. All right. We should be on TV, as we usually are, but we're not yet. Okay. Hopefully we're on audio anyway. That's actually a good question. Carla, do we know if the audio is being recorded? Yes, I'm recording. Okay. Thank you. That's good. Are you ready? Yes, please. Okay. Okay.
 So the city attorney begins with some announcements that help us conform with state law, and they describe the way the hearing will be held today. This is going to be an evidentiary hearing, which means you may submit new evidence to the council in support of your arguments. I'm going to talk first about the order of testimony today. We're going to begin with a staff report for about 10 minutes from the Bureau of Development Services.
 and then we're going to follow in in this order and it's a little unusual we usually don't have two appellants so we're starting with appellant number one which is the water bureau they'll have 10 minutes to make their initial presentation followed by the mount tabor neighborhood association as the second appellant who will have 10 minutes
 We will then have public testimony, which the mayor has announced at two minutes each. And then we'll have the appellant one, Portland Water Bureau's response for 10 minutes, appellant two, the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association's response for 10 minutes. If we get through all of that, then we would then have rebuttal from both of the appellants, again in the same order, appellant one, Water Bureau, followed by appellant two, the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. They will each have five minutes for rebuttal.
 Following that, there will be council discussion.
 so i'm going to announce some guidelines for those of you who will be addressing council today first submitting evidence into the record any letters or documents you wish to become part of this record must be given to the council clerk after you testify the original or a copy of any slides photographs drawings maps videos or other items you show to counsel during your testimony including your powerpoint presentations must be given to the council clerk to ensure they're part of the record
 Second, the testimony must be directed to the approval criteria for this review. Any testimony, arguments, and evidence you present must be directed toward the applicable approval criteria or other criteria in the city's plan or zoning code you believe apply to the decision. BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as part of their initial staff report.
 Finally, issues must be raised with specificity. You must raise an issue clearly enough to give the council and the other parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you don't, you will be precluded from appealing to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue. So I've got a question, Lindley, because this is kind of an unusual proceeding for us to have, Lindley.
 double appeals. We often have appeals of a land use decision by someone, whether it's a neighborhood or an applicant. So we have a section, as we always do for public testimony. Do people have to sign up on one side or the other, or have we... Because we have appellants on both sides, we've simply...
 In the notice that we provided, we just said public testimony. Okay. So I don't think we need to do it that way. I also, can I confirm one thing? Because this is slightly, what I got out of this is a little different. I want to confirm with staff that the appellant one and appellant two responses are after public testimony or are they intended to be before? Okay.
 I just want to make sure. The initial presentation, you mean? No, their initial presentation is before testimony. I just want to make sure that their response. Oh, I see, responses. I know they have a rebuttal period at the very end, but we have something called their response. Was that intended to be before or after testimony? After? Okay.
 That's what I thought. So I'm looking at this, and I'm actually – so I'd like to clarify that. Change that order. Because it's different than what I thought as I was reading from the sheet. My understanding was that both – as we would if there were only one appellant, you have the opportunity to make your initial presentation, and then the other party would have a chance to respond to that. So we're actually going to go 10 minutes, Water Bureau.
 10 minutes Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, then 10 minutes for the Water Bureau to respond to what they heard from the Neighborhood Association, and 10 minutes for the Neighborhood Association to respond to what they heard from the Water Bureau. Okay. At that point, public testimony. Then we go to public testimony. I apologize for the confusion. No, that's all right, because I think this is the first one, at least that I've seen lately, that we've had dueling appeals, if you will. Yeah, me too. Yeah, all right. Good. Other questions?
 Before we start the process. So, again, people have signed up, and I'll just take people in order as they are on the list, rather than worrying about which side of the appeal people are signed up on, right? Because, again, that's a little different usually. We have people arguing in favor of the appellant. We have support and oppose. Just appeal. No specific appeal.
 You have a sign-up sheet of supporters and a sign-up sheet of people who oppose the decision, right? Okay. We just put as the oppose the appeal. Which could be. I don't have the sign-up sheets up here. Bear with us, folks. This is a little bit uncharted territory for us, so our apologies. But it's normal that we would have a single appellant and somebody would either be supporting or opposing the appellant. In this case, we have two appellants with different arguments.
 So my suggestion is that we that we probably just take that list as a committee of the whole and Will let people let us know where they are and get the council the amp opportunity to keep it straight Rather than trying to re-sort the list right? Yeah, I think one of the lists appeared at least a long time ago to be quite a bit shorter so if you wanted to
 alternate that would be fine too it's only we're only two on it so okay i'm sorry there were only two on the other which i thought said oppose or support the appeal rather okay where the longer list just says to um i think if you've got you got more than 40 people signed up on the other list right i i would say but i would say let's just take both lists together
 Again, there may be people – well, let me ask. This is a decision of the Historic Landmarks Commission, right? It's been appealed by two different parties. Are there folks here who are here in support of the decision of the Landmarks Commission? If there's one, okay. All right.
 So well mayor, I so they are opponents of the appeal. Sorry. I think you they did have some confusion. Yeah Yeah, I'm confused too. Okay. I think it's also a de novo hearing Yeah, so technically I can speak to any if it's a de novo hearing we should take them as I think we should take them as Many as that's right. All right So I want to go back you and we'll take you in batting order and let you tell us which side of the rules that you're on
 We'll try to keep it all clear. Mayor, I just want to go back to the audio-video issue. We may have one or more PowerPoints, and right now I don't know whether that system is working. What happened? It just – Hey, there we go. It's working. Nice work, Carla. Yeah, so we will be able to show the PowerPoints in council. My understanding, the –
 recording guy is had trouble getting to city hall so all right one more question if we do we have people in overflow and are they at least able to hear the audio so that they would know to come over are there people overflow we just need to make sure that we can people who want to testify they can come we don't know if they've got audio over there or not i think we ought to wait a second so the um
 Technical guy the audio guy or the video guy is there now, so we should get video up in any moment I just will note the mayor has put some money in his budget for a technology upgrade. Yeah, no kidding So well, we know why yes, we have people in the overflow. All right, and They go they're connected. Okay, good job. All right, so let us begin with a staff report that part at least is conventional Hillary Adam BDS. Thank you um
 So this is the appeal of a Type 3 historic resource review and Type 2 environmental review, LU14218444HREN, the Mount Tabor Reservoir's disconnection. This is just a quick zoning overview. The site is Mount Tabor Park. It's zoned OS, which is open space with environmental conservation overlay in portions.
 It's the Mount Tabor Park Historic District and the Mount Tabor Reservoirs Historic District. The entire Mount Tabor Park is a historic district. The approval criteria are 33.846060G, other approval criteria, as well as 33.430250A for the portions in the environmental zones.
 this is just an aerial view of mount tabor park and you can see the reservoirs there with six to the west for the moving east uh reservoir five and then reservoir one a little bit to the south so the summary and this is distilled a little bit um just because there are a bunch of different factors but um to simplify it i highlighted some
 Some of the major points. The Portland Water Bureau is proposing to cap and plug existing underground pipe in order to disconnect the reservoirs from the drinking water system. That would include removing some existing trees and then landscaping and restoration of that landscaping.
 Removal of existing underground vaults and construction of new underground vaults, construction of above-ground electrical cabinets on concrete pads, screening inlet wear openings and pipe openings, removing pipe ends and installing caps on the flanges of the outlet pipes, and minor alterations at Gatehouse 6 East. The Historic Landmarks Commission
 We met for four hearings, and they ultimately decided 7-0 to approve the proposal with conditions, and I've included all of those conditions here. A is a standard condition that we apply to all land use cases. B...
 I've highlighted and read portions of the conditions that are contested or up for discussion. I'll just read this aloud. Following completion of the disconnection, reservoirs 1, 5, and 6 must continue to hold water within the normal historic operating range for each reservoir, which is 50 to 75 percent. The reservoirs must be maintained and clean and may be empty partially or fully for brief periods as necessary to address system operational requirements.
 to maintain security, regulatory compliance, or for safety concerns. The reservoirs shall not be partially or fully emptied for more than 60 days total, either consecutive or non-consecutive, within a calendar year, except in emergency circumstances. Any proposal to permanently remove visible water from the site as required in the preceding sentence will require a follow-up land use application to be reviewed by the Historic Landmarks Commission.
 I noted the 50 to 75 percent because this is potentially an error on my part where the Water Bureau noted that the historic fill levels were 50 to 75 percent during one hearing and then later said that they were 65 to 85 percent.
 So when we were drafting this condition, my recollection recalled 50 to 75 percent. But the latest, at that time, the latest value was 65 to 85 percent. So I just wanted to clarify that point. So your recommendation would be to amend that condition to say 75 to 85? Yes. Right. 65 to 85? Yeah. Okay.
 Also, partially or fully emptied for more than 60 days total. The Water Bureau has contested this whole sentence, actually. And they will speak to that. Continuing, condition C was about...
 an interpretation program to basically tell the story of the Mount Tabor reservoir system, including the disconnection, so that people going there would know their history and also that they no longer contain drinking water, just to be honest about what they would be after the disconnection. D is about archaeology. This is sort of a standard type of condition where there's extensive digging involved.
 condition e is the Water Bureau appealed based on this condition and also Mount Tabor neighborhood association has some points to make about this I'll just read it the city of Portland shall formally adopt a May 2009 Mount Tabor rest bars historic structures report and fully implement the short and long-term restorative recommendations and maintenance therein including removal of non-historic elements such as light fixtures and conduit
 restoration of the contributing resources of the Mount Timber Park reservoirs historic district by December 31st 2019 this condition specifically was this was created during the fourth hearing and I believe that it it's a major point for that helped a lot of the historic landmarks commissioners get over the hump so they could approve the proposal they felt that there needs to be a long-term preservation plan
 at Mount Tabor for the reservoirs. And so this condition was imposed. And we do have three of those commissioners here to testify. So if you'd like to call them up after or during public testimony. These are the conditions that were applied to the environmental review portion of the decision. As far as I know, there are not any major concerns with these. So I just included them just to be complete.
 so appellant one their reasons for appeal um was the statement in condition b the reservoirs shall not be partially or fully emptied for more than 60 days total either consecutive or non-consecutive within a calendar year except in emergency circumstances the water bureau contends that this aspect is mathematically impossible to meet and i will let them address that their concerns with that
 But I just wanted to point out that the Landmarks Commission, their primary concern was that the water level in the reservoirs would be maintained at historic levels. Sort of that iconic postcard view. That was also important for the State Historic Preservation Office. They made a point of saying that they found no adverse effect as long as there was water kept in the reservoirs at their historic levels. Condition E, the Water Bureau, is appealing that entire condition.
 They say that they do not have the budget to implement all of those restoration components. And again, as I said, the Landmarks Commission, their primary concern was to ensure the long-term preservation of these historic resources. Appellant 2, Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association says,
 These were the reasons for the appeal listed in the initial appeal application. One, BDS failed to require identification of legal boundaries to demonstrate the applicant has the authority over the subject property. To that, I just provided simple responses. The property is owned by the city. The Water Bureau is acting as an agent of the city, and Parks has agreed to work with the Water Bureau as part of this proposal.
 Two, the proposal changes the amount of existing basic utility use by more than 10%. Therefore, conditional use is required. Section 33.815.040A, BDS does not believe that that applies because the proposal is not for a new conditional use, a change to another use in another category, adding another use, or changing any specifically approved amount of the existing conditional use.
 Number three, the exterior improvement area exceeds 1,500 square feet. Therefore, conditional use is required. The exterior improvement area does not exceed 1,500 square feet, and the record shows a net loss of exterior improvement area. Four, the record lacks sufficient evidence demonstrating that the applicant retained and preserved the reservoirs. Therefore, approval criterion number one is not met.
 And condition B requires the reservoirs be filled with water at their historic levels in order to ensure that approval criteria number one is met. And the approval criterion does not require that the water be potable. Number five, the project jeopardizes the existing conditional use status and does not ensure possible future restoration of the historic function of the site. Therefore, approval criteria number two and number nine are not met.
 The conditional use status of the site is not jeopardized by the disconnection as the status is not changing. While not specifically required by the approval criteria, the disconnection is designed to be reversible in response to public comments. Approval criteria number nine are met with the conditions attached to each. Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association...
 provided additional requests. I'm just going to list them here. I'm going to need a bit more time. Yes, that's fine. We typically grant staff more time on a complicated staff report. And then I'm sure that they will elaborate. I just wanted to highlight them. One, deny the applicant's challenge to the clause in Condition B that protects constancy of the iconic views. Two, deny the applicant's challenge to Condition E.
 Instead, respect that historic landmarks commission mandate for historic preservation work at the historic Mount Tabor reservoir site. Three, correct the Scribner's error in condition B. Strike the incorrect 50 to 75 percent reference supplied by BDS staff during the landmarks commission deliberations. And replace it with 65 to 85 percent, which is the range set forth by applicant testimony.
 Exhibit H51. 4. Clarify the language of Condition B. Revise the current text to the normal historic operating range to read the normal historic operation range, producing iconic views. 5. Limit the timeline of Condition E's preservation work so as to be concurrent with the timeline of other project construction. As such, we ask Council to shorten the completion deadline for the preservation work to May 2017.
 Fix, strengthen the Landmarks Commission's efforts to protect Tabor's historic assets. We ask you to require the applicant to, within one year, craft a written long-range preservation plan, including at least five years of budget projections in concert with SHPO, and under design advice review with Historic Landmarks Commission to be formally adopted before council.
 And seven, direct the applicant to, one, file for conditional use review before proceeding further, and two, develop a plan to protect the site's existing conditional use status, which is basic utility. And so you have two options today. One is to adopt the Historic Landmarks Commission's decision of approval with conditions, thus denying the appeals that would be accepting it as it is written.
 And two, modify the Historic Landmarks Commission's decision of approval with conditions by revising, adding, or eliminating conditions, thus accepting part or all of either appellant's appeals. And that is it. OK. Questions? Isn't a third option to deny the application?
 That is a possibility. Neither of the appellants is requesting that. So that is why I left it off. Thank you. Then I have a clarification, and I don't know whether you can answer this, or maybe the Historic Landmarks Commissioners can, regarding the condition of approval about the Historic Structures Report.
 It's contested. So on page 19 of the hearings office decision addressing approval criterion for historic features, there's a discussion that there was going to be a proposal to repair the reservoir one parapet and that was withdrawn. And it says the commission notes that it's most certainly in need of repair, encourages the Water Bureau to present a proposal for repair of the parapet wall and then the commission
 no deteriorated features are proposed to be replaced, and therefore this criterion is not applicable. But then turning the page to page 21, there's an extensive discussion of repairs and the proposed condition of approval to require all kinds of renovations, which I've looked up the report, and there's several pages of different things which presumably would have to go through Historic Landmarks Review.
 Potentially. Some of repair and maintenance are exempt from historic resource review. So when this first came in, it included repair of the parapet walls at Reservoir 1. And I advise that they withdraw that portion because it did not seem like it was subject to review. And also, I just didn't know if it was the right thing.
 In order to move forward, I didn't feel like I had enough information at the time, but I felt like it was potentially exempt. And from what I heard from them at the time was that they had budgeted for those repairs, and they were still planning to do that. But where that is in the process, they would probably be the better ones to ask. But that's...
 That's the rule of how we proceed with historic landmarks, right? If you're going to repair or renovate the existing historic features, you don't need to go through a landmarks review. If you're going to change the historic features or remove them, you do, right? Yeah, right. And has staff done any assessment of the table of repairs outlined in the structures report to see if they're all exempt? No.
 I haven't gone through it to look at that like that, no. Okay. And how much discussion was there at the Historic Landmarks Commission about the content of that report? There was quite a bit. The neighbors introduced that into the record and raised concerns that a lot of those aspects had not been completed yet.
 The Water Bureau responded to that. And I think their concerns were about budgeting in terms of how they're moving along that path. But they have not formally adopted that report, I know. Okay. And then I have a question for the city attorney, which I think I know the answer to. The Historic Landmarks Commission cannot direct the council to adopt something. Is that correct? No, they can recommend. Thank you.
 Okay, other questions for Ms. Adam? Thank you very much. Okay, let's move on into the procedure as we've had it outlined, and that is we'll take appellant number one, and that's the Portland Water Bureau. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hills and commissioners. I'm Teresa Elliott, principal engineer with Portland Water Bureau, and I'm in charge of the Tabor Reservoir project that's before you today. With me are Mike Sterr, David Schaaf, Tom Carter, and Kristen Miner from Peter Meiser Architects. Good afternoon, commissioners. I'm Kristen Miner.
 And the Portland Water Bureau asked my office to review the proposed work as a historic consultant, using the lens of both the city's approval criteria as well as the State Historic Preservation Office, commonly called SHPO. Most of the work proposed occurs in one or both of two National Register-listed historic districts—
 Both were put on the National Register in 2004, and there is no other known instance of one historic district being entirely nested within another one, a very unusual circumstance. But they do have a slightly different focus. One is on the reservoirs, the gatehouses, and the working water system. The other is really focused on the park and its features, playgrounds, public walkways, picnic structures, etc.,
 Because there are alterations proposed within a historic district, the city review is a historic resource review. There's also a staff-level environmental review that was folded in. I have reviewed the documentation submitted to the SHPO, which explains the work in detail to them. And the SHPO found that the work proposed would have no adverse effects on either historic district.
 Hillary has noted the elements of the proposal, but just a quick run-through. I have a summary again. So the major work is to disconnect the reservoirs from the drinking water system. Secondly, to construct a buried large-diameter pipe to bypass the reservoirs. This work is primarily under existing roadways and in open lawn areas. Water will be maintained in the reservoir basins.
 In the photo on the left is Gatehouse 5, and you can see a new little round inlet cap appearing above the water. On the right, you can see Gatehouse 1. It has a new inlet cap as well on its side, and a new screen on the basin weir, which is that kind of horizontal dark area. Now in these renderings, the caps were given a higher contrast just to make them easier to see.
 they would blend in. Historic districts may have contributing and non-contributing resources. So, contributing resources date from the period of significance, which in this case is 1894 to 1953, and they're related by use and construction. Non-contributing resources were added after the period of significance and don't contribute to the historic character of the district. As an example, the photo on the lower right.
 The Reservoir Historic District has 12 contributing resources, which I'm listing out for you on the slide there, and then three that are called out as non-contributing. In the larger Park Historic District, there are many more of each. In this case, alterations to contributing resources have a very minimal visual impact. The review also considers the larger district-wide compatibility, including the character of the landscaping.
 Each area is generally described in the historic nomination in terms of its character and feeling, if you will. The proposal keeps the landscape character of each work area. We assessed the proposal's effects on landscaping and views and found no significant visual change.
 On the left is a photo of the construction that was required to bring in the fourth conduit at Reservoir 5 Weir Inlet And I think this photo dates from approximately 1940 As the city's water usage expanded over time, so did the water supply system The piping and buried infrastructure has been added to and altered over time at this site Underground work is typically not reviewed by the city as it's not, in the end, visible
 On the right is the Weir Inlet at Reservoir 5, actually the same location as in this photo, which will have a screen added. It's very hard to see. It's inset and in shadow. The work proposed, even that work underground, will be reversible, meaning that the historic resources could be restored to their original condition after the work is completed. Reversibility isn't a code requirement.
 Proposed work should be undertaken in a manner that if it's later removed, the historic resource would remain unimpaired. And that is the case with the proposal. As far as visual impacts, there are very limited visual impacts overall. Alterations to contributing resources are extremely minor. And the state did agree that the work did not cause any adverse effect, and therefore no mitigation was required for the historic proposal. Thank you.
 The Landmarks Commission approved the Water Bureau's land use application with five conditions. We're only appealing two of these conditions. The Water Bureau's original proposal stated that we would fill and refresh the reservoirs, and we're committed to doing that. We're happy to meet the other conditions, too, such as the requirement to construct educational components,
 to explain the history of the water system and the site. The Water Bureau is not appealing the entire decision. We're appealing part of the wording of Condition B and all of Condition E. First, I'll talk about Condition B. The Water Bureau asks that the sentence highlighted in red be removed, and if necessary, replaced with a sentence like what we submitted in our written testimony on May 14th. The Water Bureau uses two operating ranges. Both of them are correct.
 50% to 75% and 65% to 85%. The difference is an operational issue balancing the needs upstream and downstream of the reservoirs. I'm going to walk through a couple quick slides to explain why we cannot meet the 60-day restriction in Condition B. For simplicity, I've used 50% and 85% levels to illustrate the draining, cleaning, and refilling cycle. Could you pull your mic down just a little bit? There you go, thanks.
 There is a memo in the record that explains this in more detail. Today, most of the water in the reservoirs is released into the reservoir into the distribution before we start the cycle. We drain to the sewer only about 4 million gallons or 3% of the total volume, which takes three days. In the future, the full volume in the reservoirs has to be drained to the sewer as non-potable water. If it's at 50% full, it would take 45 days to drain,
 65.5 million gallons of water held. At 85% full, it would take 77 days to drain 111 million gallons. These calculations are based on the discharge rate of 1,000 gallons a minute, which is dictated by our permits from BES and DEQ. Once the reservoirs are drained, it takes about 14 days to clean all three reservoirs and another seven days to start refilling them.
 The amount of time cleaning and refilling is not expected to change in the future. Today, the total time to drain, clean, and refill is about 24 days, not counting our disinfection time. Under the future condition, at 50% full, it would take 66 days per cycle to drain, clean, and refill all three reservoirs. At 85% full, it would take 98 days.
 The Water Bureau can meet Condition B, provided it's modified as requested. As long as it remains, we can only clean once a year, and even then, it will take more time than the condition allows. What is more, we also need time for the reservoirs to be empty to do any repair and maintenance. The 60-day time limit does not allow any time for that. I'm Tom Carter with the Water Bureau, and I'm going to talk about why the Water Bureau asks that Condition E be removed entirely from the decision.
 Landmarks Commission's findings indicated that the proposed work will not adversely affect the historic resources, and the zoning code does not mention or require mitigation or restoration in its approval criteria. So Condition E is not connected to a specific criterion that makes a legal connection, a legal requirement.
 Condition E also requires removal of all non-historic elements, and this is a working utility site. We use many of these elements, so it's not possible to remove them without crippling parts of the water system. If interpreted literally, we would be removing non-contributing elements such as our pump station, electrical and metering cabinets, vaults, and so on.
 There are no zoning code criteria or provisions that could require their removal, and each removal would require a new historic review for altering elements in the historic district. Condition E also uses the Historic Structures Report as a work plan, but the Water Bureau commissioned this report in 2009 to lay out options for planning future work. If the Water Bureau could do all the work listed, the total cost is estimated to be about $8 million in 2018 dollars, but Condition E requires it to be finished by 2019.
 removing the non-historic elements would be very costly, and on top of that, we support maintaining and restoring the facilities as allowed. In fact, we did budget $100,000 to repair the deteriorating repair wall there on the upper left, but because no review is required for repair, it's not in your packet. So our ongoing operations do include historic maintenance and repairs and have been guided by the Historic Structures Report. I'm going to allow you another minute, but I'll do the same for the other repellent. Thank you.
 And much of this work requires special skills and contractors. One major project is shown in this slide. It was the restoration of the Gatehouse 1 facade. We did receive a grant for a small portion of the work, and it ultimately cost a bit over $200,000. We are stewards of these historic resources, as well as the water system. And we must simultaneously balance costs of maintenance and restoration, water system needs, and the needs of the city as a whole.
 So these decisions are recommended by the Bureau, but we believe they're properly made by City Council through the citywide budget process, not through a land use review decision. In summary, then, we ask for Condition B to be modified, as we have written in our letter to you May 14th, and for Condition E to be deleted from the decision. Thank you. Thank you. Questions?
 I have one, and that is the cycle that you described of filling, sorry, draining, cleaning, and refilling in the 1,000 gallons a minute that you would drain the reservoir at that rate. You said that's a permit requirement. That's not a physical restriction. Could you drain the reservoir faster if the permit required that, or is that a –
 Size of plumbing actually it's both. It's um it's a It's a permit requirement from both bes and deq and they give us an operating range between 1,000 and 1,500 gallons per minute During dry weather it is designed based on their system to make sure that we are not Overwhelming their system and causing a combined sewer overflow to the river and then getting citywide violation and fines
 Right, but again, my question is what are the physical limitations? The physical limitations are the pipe diameter that it's going through. And that physical limitation is how many gallons per minute? That basically is that 1,000 to 1,500 gallons per minute. Couldn't do it faster if there were no regulatory issues? No. Okay. Okay.
 All right, because I would think there might be a way to solve that problem. Not without laying a new sewer line. Right. If the sewer line is the size that it is, I get that. But if it's a paperwork issue, that might be modifiable. Okay, other questions? Yes.
 Okay, thank you. Obviously have you back later for response. Okay, let's call the other appellant, the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, again give you 11 minutes for your presentation. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. Very nice to be here. Ty Wyman as attorney for Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. I'm joined at the table today by Stephanie Stewart, who is the chair of the Land Use Committee at MTNA. She's a 16-year resident of the Mount Tabor neighborhood, has been actively engaged in the reservoir issue for seven years now,
 To my far right is John Larson, a 15-year board member at MTNA, 33-year neighborhood resident. And he wouldn't give me the number of years that he's been actively involved in the reservoir issue. He just said many. Commissioner Fish called this a de novo hearing, and at some level it is because you're taking evidence. But it's not de novo in the sense that you do have a big record that has been given to you.
 A big record, a complete record, one that went through, was it three, was it four hearings, and lots of written testimony. When I'm given a case like this,
 I encourage my client to put in writing well ahead of the hearing what their basic points are. We have done that. They submitted, Stephanie and John submitted something about a month ago. And given that, we view ourselves as here today primarily for your questions. Thank you.
 Again, you're given a big pile of paper, asked to make a decision out of it. We've already seen how confusing it is just procedurally. So please fire away with your questions. We want to hear them. As for my involvement in this, I was brought into it only about a year ago, strictly as a land use lawyer to help the neighbors move.
 make sense of or understand better the land use process. My job over the last 20 years pretty much has been to review, understand, and apply land use codes. And I have heard a great deal of frustration, as I'm sure some of you have over those years, with codes. And the codes are full of this minutiae, and where does this minutiae come from, what does it mean, and why does it exist? And I say to pretty much all of them, well, all of those code provisions are,
 have uh... are at the end of a strand that leads all the way back to the nineteen statewide land use planning goals those set the policy the code implements the policy and as you can probably tell i want to emphasize to you what your code says uh... because your your code is very thick and i don't want to get lost i also want to
 Contrast a little bit. On some issues, state laws vary. On some land use issues, state laws are quite prescriptive, frankly, and tell cities, this is how you will regulate development. Certainly, Goal 3 on farmland is that way.
 Goal 5 on natural and historic resources is less prescriptive. It really lets cities decide for themselves how they want to go about protecting them. A suburban city, Tiger, just as an example, I looked at their code, and their code allows alteration of an historic structure based on, quote, the reasonableness of the proposed alteration and its relationship to the public interest.
 to the public interest in the structure's preservation. Well, that's kind of, it's one that we lawyers tend to love. It's a little bit of a balancing, calls upon a balancing of interests. Well, the Water Bureau did not stress to you, did not clarify for you, what we're calling approval standard number one under historic, under your historic preservation code.
 It says simply, quote, the historic character of the property will be retained and preserved. There is no...
 There's no balancing required. It is an absolute requirement. Furthermore, the word preserve is, in my mind, in my experience, a very strong word. And I went to Merriam-Webster, and its definition of preserve is to keep in its original state or in good condition.
 And, of course, this is going to lead into the factual testimony that I'm sure you're going to hear plenty of. If you've read the record, you've seen plenty of. These resources are not, have not been kept in anything close to original state or good condition. They have to be, your code requires them through this process to be preserved as such. Preserve also means to keep something safe from harm or loss.
 and to prevent or to prevent something from decaying. That is the cornerstone obligation. It's not the only one, but that is the cornerstone obligation that is on this applicant, the Water Bureau. I want to make one other perspective about this process because, again, you go to most other cities, an historic preservation process is going to be heard by a lay body. It's probably going to be heard by a planning commission, maybe a hearings officer.
 Not here. You have empaneled a group and given them very specific jurisdiction over historic resources, and I believe that the group even is not a lay body, but they are folks with demonstrated expertise in historic resources. And so that's the hill that this applicant had to climb for obvious reasons. As you can tell, obviously, we don't feel like they climbed it, and now they're even trying to back down it.
 um a little bit but uh with that i'm going to turn the floor over to stephanie hi i'm stephanie stewart and as ty introduced i'm the land use chair with the mount tabor neighborhood association i've been working on this case rather intensely for the last 16 months
 At 120 years and counting, Mount Tabor is unquestionably a testament to the kind of visionary planning many of us hope to leave as our legacy. And Mount Tabor preserves a captivating story of American ingenuity. Generations of Mount Tabor residents have worked to protect that story and this site on behalf of all Portlanders for all Portlanders to enjoy. Okay.
 Our legacy is clear. Today you chart the course for the next hundred years for Mount Tabor. You hold in your hands the next generation's experience of this park. Will you keep this story and this park whole or will you allow a giant hole to be left in it? We're asking you take the advice of the Historic Landmarks Commission
 And that advice is to fill the reservoirs, preserve the structures, preserve the views, and preserve the park experience. It's the low-cost option for keeping this crown jewel of a park whole. And it also respects the history this site preserves. My name is John Larson. I'm a longtime member of the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association Board.
 I've been before you before. I've owned and operated a graphic design business in Portland for 45 years. I worked with Portland Parks and Recreation as a member of the design team that created the Oregon Holocaust Memorial in Washington Park.
 I served as the typographer for the monuments at Director Park. I served as a member of the Citizens Advisory Committee for the Hawthorne Transportation Plan. I served in that capacity for so long, having been appointed by City Commissioner Earl Blumenauer, that when I retired, it was under the administration of Sam Adams. And I also served on the Nonconforming Sewer Committee that was established by Commissioner Salzman. And so I've worked with parks, and I've worked with...
 BES and I've worked with PBOT and I have to say that I've worked happy and collaboratively with them and I've just been completely confounded by the Water Bureau's approach to Mount Tabor water.
 Here we are at odds for reasons that are genuinely mysterious to Portland citizens, not just in Mount Tabor citizens but across the city. Our position that these historic structures should be preserved and that they should be kept filled with water is just common sense. How is it possible that the Bureau sees it so differently? I've spent a lot of time thinking about why the Water Bureau and the community are at loggerheads in this unfortunate way, which is costing so much time and energy and effort all the way around.
 The fundamental disconnect, if you'll pardon the pun, is that the Water Bureau sees the reservoirs in only the most strictly utilitarian terms, with little regard for their condition and appearance, as you've seen in these photographs, with little regard for their condition and appearance, while the rest of us see the reservoirs not simply as a utility, but as an integral part of the experience of a beautiful park, the crown jewel of Portland's East Side.
 which is exactly what they were intended to be when the city fathers hired the Olmstead brothers to design Mount Tabor Park more than a century ago. The Water Bureau, though, looking at the reservoirs through its particular professional prism, does not see any value in taking care of the reservoirs as historic resources. The inescapable fact is that they are historic resources. They are listed on the National Historic Register, and moreover, they are historic reservoirs that are central fixtures of the park.
 The Water Bureau says in its appeal that it, quote, balances dual responsibilities at Mount Tabor, operating a safe, effective drinking water supply system and being a steward of the historic resources, unquote. The community knows, though...
 through years of sad experience that the Bureau does not do a good job of balancing those two responsibilities. That is what the record shows, that is what these slides show, and that is why the Historic Landmarks Commissioners unanimously decided to mandate future behavior and management practices for the historic resources. The Bureau's existing management practices do not come close to meeting the approval criteria for historic resource review.
 I own a commercial building on Hawthorne Boulevard, and I know exactly how attractive a target for graffiti and for trash that those large concrete expanses will be if they are left empty for any length of time. There is every reason to believe that the cost of cleaning empty reservoirs may well exceed the cost of cleaning them if they are kept filled with water. In all likelihood, fill and preserve is not an expensive choice and is, in fact, the least cost option.
 The conditions imposed by the Historic Landmarks Commission are necessary to comply with the Code. Those conditions also align with the desires of the community and filling and preserving
 is the least cost option so they also align with budgetary concerns in both the short and long run. For all these reasons, we respectfully ask you to deny the Water Bureau's appeal and to uphold and reinforce the decision of your historic landmarks commission requiring that the reservoirs be filled and preserved.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. When you come back on response later, you probably are already planning to do this, but I want to hear from you. The Water Bureau just made a statement.
 practicability arguments about both Condition B and Condition E. Right. I don't need to do it now, but when you come back up. This is the first time we've heard those arguments because they said it was two weeks. We'll give you a little more time. That is about ten minutes, but I'll give you a little more time to think about a response to that. But I'm being a little flippant. I'm serious. I want to hear your response to that practicability argument that it's going to take,
 as I understood their argument, it would take longer than 60 days to drain and refill, given the capacity of the pipe and the regulatory restrictions. I want to hear your thoughts about that.
 that full compliance with Condition E would require removal of equipment or facilities that ultimately are necessary, if I can, again, paraphrase their argument. So I'll give them a chance to rearticulate that argument if I didn't get it right, but I'd like to hear, you know, when you come back, your response to those counterclaims from them about these conditions. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
 When you're referring to fill and preserve the reservoirs, you're not saying with drinking water? No. We are saying keep non-potable water. And we understand this is not the venue. We, the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, understand that this is the land use hearing. We're not arguing that question here. We're trying to be very clear about that. Okay.
 We are saying, as appellants, we are saying please keep water in the reservoirs so they look the way they look. That is how the citizens of Portland expect them to look. And we are saying preserve the structures instead of allowing them to crumble into disuse.
 And we are asking for that. We're asking for it not for our neighborhood per se, but for everyone in Portland and for the generations to come, as you can see in the photograph. Mr. Wyman, you did invite a question. I don't want you to leave the table without a question. I don't want you to feel disrespected. Both sides have talked about lease cost option or brought cost into the equation.
 Do you have anything you want to share with us about the role, the relative importance of cost as any part of our consideration in this proceeding? Boy, I, Commissioner, if – well, let's just say I could consider that to be a leading question. The short answer is I candidly don't. And the analogy that I make is –
 a developer coming to you or to one of the lower hearings bodies here and saying, gee, we would just love to comply.
 with the criteria of that code, but it's just too darn expensive, and we can't do it. I've never heard that. The only way in which that argument is made and articulated by developers is through the Dolan proportionality analysis, which actually, somewhat ironically, and now I know that I am off answering your question, but the Dolan proportionality analysis
 principle, which ironically the Water Bureau articulated. And so they're essentially saying that condition E would affect a taking of their property by the city, which I'm pretty sure is a non-starter of an argument. So candidly, unless you can give me an example, I honestly don't see where that cost issue lies.
 comes into play in these criteria, which I pointed out, I just see as absolutes and not that balancing. If it said to the extent feasible, preserve the resources, which is a very common term in land use codes. So I'm sorry, I went on a little bit. No, I appreciate that. So what I take from that is that
 The question of whether the ultimate outcome provides a sticker shock to either rate payers or taxpayers, in your view, is not relevant to the consideration of what needs to be done to preserve a historic resource. That is correct. Thank you. Yeah, and you've got that in your brief here as well. Yeah, okay. Thank you. Other questions? Yes.
 Neither Commissioner Fish nor I declared as an ex parte contact what's in the public involvement document regarding the discussions that we had before the application was submitted. So I just wanted to mention that that was before the application was submitted and also to thank the Mount Sabre Neighborhood Association for your constructive participation.
 participation in the pre-application discussions with the Water Bureau. I want to thank the Water Bureau for their tours, which I participated in, and the really collaborative and
 helpful input that we received from neighbors to modify that the water bureau received to modify their application it's it's good to hear us coming here to argue about the conditions rather than as was clarified by Miss Adam that we're not you're not asking for the approval to be rescinded or first not to approve
 So I just wanted to make that clear to check on that too, that you're asking for the conditions. You're not asking for us to reject the application. No, we're asking for you to uphold the HLC decision and to, as you'll see in our documents, to possibly strengthen them with some refinements that we've suggested.
 And there is one public process that we do feel we missed that we've also asked for in our appeal. Yes, I saw that. You didn't discuss that in your testimony just now. I was wondering about that.
 If you'd like to know more about that, I'm happy to speak to that. It's the conditional use review. We do feel that this project triggered a conditional use review, and that seems to be a difference of reading the technicalities of how the code is written. Right now, for instance, in the presentation you saw from BDS.
 They said that the development has not actually expanded beyond 1,500 square feet, and we argue that the development has expanded beyond 1,500 square feet.
 Water Bureau asserted that development that's happening below ground is not normally considered development. And we are arguing that when below ground development has above ground implications, as it does in this case, the pipe restricts trees from being planted in our tree park, that we have then hit the trigger that would start the conditional use process, which is designed to evaluate whether or not a project changes the character of a site,
 and changing tree planting restrictions in this park does potentially affect the character of this park. The Water Bureau has introduced an assertion that's never been historically true in Mount Tabor Park. They're now saying that above their pipe and for 10 feet in each direction, no trees can be planted.
 ever, forever and ever, amen. That's of course not true anywhere else in the city where pipes run underneath trees and infrastructure and streets and buildings everywhere, but they're saying they're now asserting in Mount Tabor Park that trees cannot be planted above any of their pipes. So, for instance, taking the trees out of Mount Tabor, the trees that they
 even if they're taking mature trees, because they're eliminating some areas of Mount Tabor that can be planted with trees. The mitigation has to be saplings planted, street trees elsewhere in the city, and can't be planted in Mount Tabor Park there because they won't allow trees to be planted above their pipe. Right now, there are the same diameter pipes in...
 trees growing above them, but Water Bureau is asserting that it now has the use of that land in perpetuity above its pipes. And that changes the character of the park, and that's why we wanted conditional use. So, and the traditional, the tree planting is something that you think would be better addressed using the conditional use approval criteria? Yes. I see. And then could you also, when you come back for a response, give us a
 address their proposed changed wording to Condition B as to whether you think that that's acceptable or if you have a counterproposal. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, can I add one comment to what your comments earlier? I want to also thank Commissioner Fritz, Stephanie and John and others from the Neighborhood Association. When this first came to me, I believe it had been determined to be a Type 2 land use proceeding.
 And I believe based on the feedback we got, we made it a Type 3. And there's originally an administrative decision. I was persuaded, based on the arguments of the neighborhood, that Type 3 would give a more robust public process. I appreciate the arguments that you made to that effect, and Commissioner Fritz, I thought it was the right thing to do. I also appreciate the work that the Neighborhood Association and committee members did as part of that citizen panel discussion.
 And it is somewhat unprecedented for Parks and Water to work this collaboratively, and I thank the commissioner in charge for setting that standard.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Certainly our staff have all done a good job. Finally, when you come back, supposing we don't agree with you on the issue of the conditional use, and you can do this in written testimony as well before the record closes, are there some additional conditions addressing trees that you would like to see that might address the concern directly rather than going through the conditional use process?
 So I'm really encouraged that we seem very close to figuring out something that might work. So I'm hoping we can do that in this process. That would be great.
 Other questions? Thank you very much. We'll see you back here in a while. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I know we are ready to move to response now, but I also heard from Ms. Adam that we have some members of the Landmarks Commission here checking with our city attorney. It might be appropriate to give them the chance or the opportunity if they want to speak now as opposed to after response. What do you think?
 If we were doing this as a typical appeal, we would generally give them the courtesy of being the first ones to testify as part of public testimony, but not typically in between the appellant and the response. All right. I won't be that courteous then. Sorry. Okay.
 These volunteers give us a huge amount of their time. I was trying to save them a little of it, but we'll make them wait another 20 minutes because I think you're correct. Okay, let's move to now 10 minutes for response from the Water Bureau to the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association's appeal and their statement. Thank you.
 I'm Teresa Elliott, and with me are Kristen and Tom to respond to the public testimony and also to the other appellants' comments. Our public outreach was scaled appropriately for the size of the project and the level of construction impacts. The design does not significantly alter the historic structures and minimizes impacts on the historic districts, so the outreach was focused on construction impacts.
 Early in 2014, we modified that outreach to accommodate the higher levels of interest from the neighbors and the community groups. We set up walking tours to explain the project, and we set up and participated in a community advisory committee to look at options to reduce construction impacts on the parks and the neighbors. We submitted a report today that summarizes that outreach.
 As an example of the changes the Water Bureau made to address public comments, pipe alignments in three locations were modified to increase the number of trees being saved and protected. Photos on the right show trees below Reservoir 1 that were saved by realigning one of the pipelines. We expect to continue to use the site as a basic utility, and the proposal is completely reversible.
 We chose to, the Water Bureau chose to commission the Historic Structures Report in 2009 in order to identify, prioritize, and select potential projects. Some of this work has already been done, and we'll show you some examples of that in a moment.
 The report offers multiple options on many historic restorations or repair items and provides cost estimates for some items, initially having a planning level cost estimate of $1.5 million. Nowhere in the report does it suggest removing non-historic elements. We cannot remove the non-historic elements and be able to operate the system. The Water Bureau has attached cost estimates to the things that were missing in the report and updated the cost to $2,018.00.
 needed in order to comply with Condition E. We estimate that the complete work in the report would cost at least $8 million. Removal of the non-historic items are not included in that estimate and would be expensive and would require additional historic reviews. This would also result in removal of critical infrastructure, such as the taper pump stations, which are not historic but are still in use.
 I want to touch on some of the ongoing work that's occurred in the last decade or so at Mount Tabor, so I can illustrate the specialization that is required to work on contributing resources.
 The first slide here shows gatehouses. Gatehouse 1, shown in the pictures on the left, has a patented finish by Ernest Ransom. It is concrete, but it's designed to look like stone. The surface is highly rusticated and hand-finished.
 And a series of molds were created of these rusticated blocks so that the surface could be replicated. And those blocks were slightly curved at the two ends, you know, by the shape of the gatehouse, and then had to be flat in the middle areas. The photos on the bottom right show that the sills were completely recast. Cornice details were also recast using what you see there are epoxy negatives.
 The concrete color and aggregate needed to be matched exactly, and contractors had to be specialists in this type of work. The Reservoir One equipment platform and gatehouse platform, which you see in that lowest left-hand photo, were both also replaced or rebuilt at that time, and those pieces of work needed historic design review.
 The historic structures report had a planning level cost for this item, but the true cost of the work ended up being about four times the planning cost estimate. Now at the upper right you see Gatehouse 5, which received new handrails for accessibility. The steps were patched and restored. Doors, door frames, and windows were replaced or rebuilt all in 2008 to 2010. And again, that work did require historic design review.
 Next slide here is for concrete work at reservoir basins and perimeter walkways. There's been much ongoing basin work. All of them have been patched and cleaned of debris on a regular basis, but then concrete repairs plus liner was added to Reservoir 5 in the 1990s,
 And there have been major linings many decades in a row. In 1965 and 1975, there are many photos that show up when you just look through city archives of those photos. So they're occurring on a regular basis as needed. Sidewalks were extensively repaired around all three reservoirs in the 2008-2010 project under a separate historic review.
 To meet the approval criteria, which is based on the Secretary of the Interior standards for historic structures, sidewalks have to retain their original width and simple scoring pattern of the original design. With the root damage, freeze and thaw cycles, pipe access, etc., much of the sidewalk surfaces have needed repair or replacement over time.
 And this type of work is less historically demanding, so a specialized contractor isn't always necessary, but the concrete does have to match the appearance of the original in color and aggregate as much as possible. So the bottom right photo shows concrete samples being visually evaluated for a match with historic concrete. Even putting in a curb cut can trigger review in a historic district. Okay.
 And then as a final example, I have some historic wrought iron work that's been done at Mount Tabor. Wrought iron is another historically sensitive type of repair and rehabilitation. It is very decorative and it's an important character defining element of all three reservoirs. The restoration of the Reservoir 1 fence was a major repair done in the 2008-2010 timeframe.
 Work had to be done off-site for several reasons. One is environmental concerns with any sanding or scraping of paint that might contain lead. So small areas can be contained and done on-site, but any larger repair has to be removed from the site in sections and then brought back to the site and reattached.
 So the fence was actually cast into the parapet wall originally. So it has to be cut off and then reinstalled using a new sleeve detail. The examples of restoration work I showed in these three slides provide a glimpse into the high bar that is set by historic approval criteria and by the state and federal oversight of work in historic districts. The Water Bureau does take this work seriously, in my professional opinion.
 So in summary, we have discussed Condition B and the technical reasons that we cannot meet the specific number of day limitation that has been provided in the condition. We've also provided detailed written responses elsewhere to the appeal arguments of the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, and it would be worth your while to check those in addition to what we are presenting here.
 But this is about the zoning code, and the zoning code reviews specific proposals at specific properties and their effects. And that is really what it deals with. And the changes that we are proposing, the physical changes to the property, which is the development that we are proposing, are very small in scale, and they maintain the visual and historic character of the site. And in fact...
 The Landmarks Commission stated in their findings that the proposed work, quote, preserves the essential form and integrity of the reservoir's historic district and Mount Taper Park, unquote. So nevertheless, they are asking to impose Condition E, which we believe is unjustified, and we believe that a land use decision condition of approval is not the right place to create a program of this sort.
 From the beginning, we carried out this project with the knowledge that Council had budgeted a separate project to plan for the future of the reservoirs in the park. And our proposal preserves all options for the future use of these reservoirs. They could be filled and preserved. They could... Other things could be done with them. We're not foreclosing these options. So the information in our written testimony is in your packet. And we respectfully ask for your modification of Condition B and the removal of Condition E.
 Thank you. So let me bear down a bit on question E. Yes. Condition E.
 My reading of Condition E, and maybe you can refer me to a place in your submission that gets to this question, if you have gotten to it in written form, and that is Condition E says basically take the historic structures report, implement the short and long-term restoration recommendations and the maintenance issues,
 including removal of non-historic elements such as light fixtures and conduit and restoration of the contributing resources. I don't read that report, I don't read that condition as saying remove all non-historic elements on the site. I read that condition as saying the removal of non-historic elements mentioned in the report
 Are you saying that there are non-historic elements mentioned in the report that you can't remove? Yes. Okay. Can you give us a listing of those at some point? Actually, I can. Okay.
 I can give you one example right now. One of the things that's listed is the reservoir liner. If we remove the reservoir liner, the reservoirs will leak. So that's a non-historic element installed in 1990. Yes. Which reservoir? Pardon? Which reservoir liner is supposed to be? It's the Reservoir 5 liner. Okay. Another one would have been the Tabor Pump Station.
 And we cannot remove that. That feeds about 1,000 people that are a higher elevation than the reservoirs at Mount Tabor. And removal of that would remove their service.
 Okay, and that one was also mentioned in the report. I don't have the report. I don't remember. I think that we interpret the way that condition is that it's saying, in addition to the report, you are removing any non-historic elements. It does not distinguish only those that are listed in the report. I think that may be possible to clarify that. Right. And that reasonable people might be able to –
 might even be able to agree on which elements that are non-historic can be addressed in a restoration effort and which ones have some important practical value like a pump station that most reasonable people would agree needs to stay in operation. So I'm hoping that the
 The relatively narrow distance between the two appellants here could get narrower if we were able to agree on the list of things that a reasonable person would say would have to stay, and the ones like out-of-era light fixtures that can relatively easily be replaced. And it might be worth your looking through this report again, because actually the new liner is said to be good for it. Stop the deterioration and preserve and maintain it. Okay. So there's...
 This obviously wasn't the focus of the land use review for the most part. It probably would be good over the time that the record is held open to look through it and figure out which things could be done. We could work on that. I have a question on it, though. You said that one of the elements cost four times more than the report suggests, but four times more than 1.5 is six, not 8 million. How did you get to 8 million? Yeah.
 So one of the elements, so actually that's two different items that were, let me clarify both of them. There is one, when we restored the rest, the gatehouse one, it had a, in the report it had a proposed cost of $35,000 to $50,000. It's, it, and that was a planning level budget report.
 that was developed. It did not include, and it states in the report, it does not include any design or planning design or construction or permitting. It just is an estimate to figure out whether or not to prioritize projects and decide which projects to do. That project actually came in a little over $200,000. That's four times what it was done in the planning level.
 So when we, and in that report, there are a lot of blank lines where there are no dollars listed at all. For the dollars that are listed, it's $1.5 million. Right. So what we did was we calculated what it would cost to do all the things that didn't have a dollar attached to it, and then we prorated that or projected that forward to $2,018. Right.
 Since the condition says that we would do the work before 2019, we did future cost and brought that up. Once you applied future cost and all the missing dollars, that brought it up to $8 million. Well, the missing ones are all just maintenance projects. Those all cost money, though. And actually, they're not all maintenance projects. There's some that are what they call Category A and Category B projects as well. Thank you.
 question about the tree mitigation issue that the Mount Tabor neighborhood association brought up is there a Requirement here that as they described it to not plant new trees above the new Pipeline yes, there is that in
 I'm actually glad you asked that question. Actually, the Water Bureau standard does say for all pipes that we don't allow any kind of trees or landscaping without some kind of a rip barrier, rip protection within 10 feet of our pipeline on either side. Unfortunately, those trees that are on top of our pipelines at Mount Tabor grew before that standard was developed.
 But it's been in our standards, at least for the 20 years I've been at the Water Bureau. Most of the pipe that we're installing is in roadways, either paved or gravel roadways. There's 25 feet of pipe that goes through a small section of trees. That's the section that they're talking about. It's not the whole length. It's not the whole length. The whole length is mostly in roadways. It's 1,500 feet of pipe and 25 feet go through trees. Okay.
 Thank you, but the policy is citywide about what it is policies and absolutely okay other questions Thank you very much, but I think it's worth marriage Just I want it I'm having a blast on the past so when you say that of the 1,500 feet of pipe only 25 feet Is covered by this and that's because I as I recall I?
 The proposal that you ultimately submitted rerouted the pipe in response to neighborhood concerns about impact on trees. Am I correct? That is correct. Even before that, most of it was under roads and under paved and gravel roads. There were other areas that were not. But in this particular – When the issue of impact on trees came up, you made further adjustments. That's correct. So that to the extent possible, you protected the trees. Yes. Okay. Any other questions?
 Okay, we'll have you back at the end of rebuttal. Thank you very much. Okay, let's call on the Mount Taborhood Association again. Keep running those two words together. Something about Taborhood works, right? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Again, for the record, Ty Wyman here as attorney. And I wanted to pick up on a...
 procedural question, at least it's still a question to me. Commissioner Fritz was gracious enough to suggest to us a way in which we could perhaps suggest conditions as a way of avoiding a full-blown conditional use.
 process and that we might be able to submit later in writing. I saw something today, a slip that mentioned a record open period of June 11th, but I didn't know if that was official. We have that option, and we might exercise it to keep the record open. And if you want to request that, we can take that request.
 Okay, well, I'll talk to my client here after we stand down. So at this point it's still open whether the record will be left open. That's correct. We have that option, and particularly if a party requests it, we usually grant it. Yeah. Okay.
 Thank you very much. I know that I understand that my colleagues here have, frankly, they want to rebut some of the evidentiary assertions that you have heard here today, and I'm going to hand it over to Stephanie to start that. Well, much of the new evidence that you've seen today, we haven't seen, so this is us trying to...
 catch up on the fly and so we'll do our best. So first with the assertion Water Bureau made that the 60 day time limit is mathematically impossible. That is completely new information for us and at the Historic Landmarks Commission hearing the commissioners did ask multiple times what would that process look like and what would it cost and that question
 data was never once asserted. We also in other formats have heard them actually explain that the drain clean fill process takes less than a week without overtime pay.
 and that it would need to happen three times a year and they've even given us a cost for that. And in fact in April of 2014 there was an Oregonian article where they were quoted, a Water Bureau staff person was quoted that they were in the process of draining and cleaning and then they would refill and that would take four to six days.
 Stuart, let me follow up on that for a second. Yes. Do you believe there's a difference between draining into the sewer system and draining through other pipes, and does that affect the timeline?
 In other words, one of the things I think they said was it depends on what set of pipes. If it's disconnected from the system, it goes in the sewer system, which has permits because of CSO. Are we talking apples and oranges here? We may be, but we haven't had a chance to investigate that. And I think we'd like that chance to look at what the difference is between what they've said in the past and what they're saying today. Okay.
 Because what we've got in the record from the past is an understanding, and so did the Historic Landmarks Commission, that the water, what they were trying to protect were those deep iconic views and having them be there regularly when visitors came to the park. So...
 They were under the impression that Water Bureau needed a total of three weeks to do the drain clean fill and they doubled that. They very generously doubled that. So this new idea that it might take 77 days to drain really changes the whole concept of how do you not trigger the no adverse effect warning from SHPO if you're taking 77 days to drain the water. I think that needs to be looked at.
 Can I ask you a question, though? We're going to at some point be discussing one standard versus another. It could be a matter of days or weeks that separate them. I think before we get lost in that, it would be important for you to state what's the underlying concern you have. We could have a scientist come in and perhaps settle this question to all of our satisfaction. What's your underlying concern? My underlying concern is that I want these views to be regularly available to
 to citizens when they arrive at our park. And for the last four years, these views have not been regularly available. Reservoir 6 has been below half full more often than it has been full. And that's a distressing thing to find for the character of this park.
 Can I respond to Commissioner Fisher's question earlier? Because the four to six days was actually quoted in a newspaper article, and I believe on television, from the Water Bureau, and it was in reference to what we could call the P incident, which you may recall. And so they were saying this was in response to how long is it going to take to drain and clean and fill the reservoirs in response to the P incident. Unless they were draining that reservoir,
 peed water into people's water pipes and had already been draining down for, I believe it was, 45 days or something before they start actually draining to the sewer system. They were claiming then that it took four to six days to drain what they were calling defiled water. That is different, as you know. I had something to do with that.
 The water was drained to another reservoir. It was not introduced into the sewer system, as you know, because the hidden dividend of the decision, which some people thought was boneheaded, was that another – water from one reservoir traveled to another. And that is – it wasn't actually discharged into the sewer system because we – for precisely the reason we don't have the capacity to do that. So it went – it migrated from one reservoir to another, which I think they'll tell you is different than discharging the water.
 Okay. Okay, should I get back to addressing the rebuttal points? Okay, so then Commissioner Fritz, you asked us to look at the revised language from Water Bureau for Condition B, and I'm not sure I've seen all of that. Hillary has just shared with me a paragraph, and I'd like a chance to look at that more closely, but the one change I'm seeing in that paragraph is that they're suggesting, other than eliminating the 60-day time limit, that they are suggesting changing –
 the Scrivener's error, instead of reading 50 to 75 percent, and we've suggested 65 to 85 percent, they're suggesting 50 to 85 percent. I think we're getting really close to each other's points on this point. So while I'd like to check in with my group, I feel like we're coming together. Okay, to the cost of the historic resource, sorry, the historic structures report. Where...
 We have among our neighbors one of the experts that actually helped to write this report, and she will be speaking to you later. So we have some familiarity with this report and the stuff that is in it. The original quote was for $1.5 million, and now we're hearing from Water Bureau that they estimate this to now be at $8 million, and I'm surprised.
 struck that that seems like a 400 percent inflation rate between 2009 and today and I I'm not sure how that Really pens out, but I would like to quote that from what we've heard for evidence before now that um
 that this just isn't founded thus far. They haven't produced anything before now, or even today, that backs up this $8 million and 400% inflation. And I'd really like to see how they came to the $8 million lined out, so we can understand that. But beyond that...
 The HLC had a good reason for mandating this report, and that was because they felt they needed to mandate future behavior, and they felt they needed to mandate future behavior because the code requires them to see enough planning to be certain that, well,
 What is about to happen with the historic structure is going to meet the approval criteria. And there weren't enough plans provided into the record, so they adopted a plan. And our code, as Ty has said, our code does not allow wiggle room for your budget. You are required to meet the code and make your budget meet what you need to do to meet the code.
 And to the point of non-historic elements making the condition E clause a non-starter, we were under the impression that the non-historic elements that were used
 being requested to be removed would all be the ones that affect the aesthetic of the site and that that's what was in the report and that the report would be limited to that. Stephanie, that sounds to me, listening to the very excellent exchange earlier, interesting.
 to be another one of those issues that could be resolved by putting by actually creating a list of what we're talking about and i i don't see any great enthusiasm on your side to take out a pump if it has some kind of functional purpose or or something that prevents a leak so i that sounds to me like the hearing has been has it surfaced something that we could we could get some clarification i believe i agree with that
 And may I just add on to that? And I tip my hat, frankly, to the Water Bureau for coming up with this argument. But underlying it is, does anybody think that the HLC intended for the liner to be removed or for the nonhistoric? No, obviously they didn't. That was not the underlying intent of the condition. And I'm afraid with some of...
 the back and forth. Today we're getting away from that underlying intent of the Historic Landmarks Commission, and I'm glad we're going to be able to hear directly from some of them. John, did you have? Yeah, I want to speak specifically to the question of the Historic Structures Report, because I spent a lot of time looking at that and looking at the math. The Water Bureau at the Historic Landmarks Commission said, well, we've made we are planning to do everything in that report. We have
 We've informally adopted the report. We just haven't formally adopted it. And so I actually went through it, tried to use the Water Bureau's own testimony about what they had done so far and figured out the rate at which they were accomplishing stuff since 2009, May, so six years ago when that report was written. And if they continued...
 under their informal adoption to do things at the same rate of speed that they have been doing them, they would complete the requirements in the Historic Structures Report in 2066. And as I said to the Historic Landmarks Commission, I'm sorry, I'm going to miss the ribbon cutting. I don't know about the rest of you, but we're not going to be there to celebrate when they finish that. There are a ton of...
 things in the historic structures report which are not assigned figures because they are maintenance items as Commissioner Fritz pointed out and and maintenance maintenance you would think would be part of What they would normally do and that they would not add those numbers in in order to try to build the number up to eight million dollars and there are things that are where it says option a or option B are
 But those are options. They're option A and option B. And you can do one or the other, but you don't add them together to get the price of what it is that you're going to do. So I will submit we could have had a very robust discussion about all of this.
 If there had been the kind of public involvement that the City of Portland's public involvement principles call for, which say that early in the planning for a major project, and the Water Bureau keeps saying this is a small project, but for Mount Tabor Reservoirs and Mount Tabor Park, this is an enormous project.
 If we had been invited to the table to sit down with them to help them think about and plan this project, when they started, we might have been able to arrive at something that would have said, yes, let's take care of the structures, let's take care of the water, in that even if it's not going to be potable water, it could still have been there. We wanted the discussion that we're now having in this truncated little,
 10 minutes on, 10 minutes off conversation. We would have loved to sit down with them and say, look, here's a historic structures report that you commissioned years ago, and very little of it's been done. Could some of that be part of this? And now they're saying the Historic Landmarks Commission, the only way they could get this thing, as you heard from Ms. Adams, the only way the Historic Landmarks Commission could come to an agreement to a
 approved the application was to adopt the historic structures report whole. There was no way for a nuanced parsing of that. We would be happy to sit down, but if you look at it and it's entered into the record, that report is not going to cost eight million dollars to do. And why would you put it in twenty eighteen dollars? You could start tomorrow and do it in twenty fifteen dollars. So saying that we're going to wait until the last minute and then we're going to inflate the cost
 pretty disingenuous in my view. I'm sorry. Thank you, John.
 And I really appreciate your, one, rolling up your shirt sleeves on this issue and also the tag teaming. We're just kind of doing the best we can here on the fly. I did want to speak to the, excuse me, form and integrity criterion. There are two really relevant criteria, two particularly material criterion before you. I emphasize the criterion one, which is a preservation criterion. I think I've heard the Water Bureau sort of emphasize, well, we're not doing
 threatening the foreman and integrity. I frankly don't
 see that when I see first of all the record of the condition of the historic resources out there also maintaining the integrity of something to me that's very close to preservation I don't see a material in other words I don't see a material distinction between the two approval criteria that are that are in play here so I would just offer you that
 So I want to just give you a chance on this because you're the lawyer and the expert. You asked us to ask you questions. So SHPO says no adverse impact. So at least with respect to the work that the Water Bureau is proposing to do, why isn't that relevant? Ms. – I don't know if you noticed. Ms. Stewart leaned into the microphone. She wants to address this. So can we both quickly? Sure. Okay.
 So that could be evidence, evidence of no adverse impact. First of all, the lawyer in me says that's not dispositive of preservation. And secondly, I understand that as an evidentiary matter, that SHPO statement is somewhat in dispute. Exactly what SHPO was saying, there was no adverse effect as to
 is not this, it does not relate directly to the resources that the criterion protects. And if we do keep the record open, which I'm guessing we will, you'll bring that to our attention. Okay, thank you.
 I'll speak on that. Okay, so SHPO said no adverse effect as long as certain negotiated provisions were met by the Water Bureau. And those were negotiations that they had together, SHPO and the Water Bureau. And one of those provisions was you must maintain water in the reservoirs, and the intent behind that provision was to maintain the iconic views.
 They had other provisions, and some of the correspondence between Water Bureau and SHPO has been revealed to us by SHPO, and that is in the original record with HLC, and I can further bring that to the surface for you later if you'd like. But also, SHPO did choose to respond to Water Bureau's appeal to you because they did notice that their no adverse effect was
 was invoked as a reason for disregarding the Historic Landmarks Commissioner's conditions.
 And they made, CHPO made it very clear that first of all, they were reviewing very different criteria. They were reviewing the state level criteria which is not as specific or as rigorous as the local criteria. And secondly, that they fully supported HLC's decision because HLC was looking at a much more rigorous criteria and they supported whatever HLC felt like they needed to do. Oh, just so we're clear.
 We can spend a lot of time talking about intent. We can talk a lot about what's in or not in the record. There's been many hearings before landmarks. There's a public hearing now. There's been robust public process before. If there's specific evidence you want to point us to,
 a letter, a follow-up or something, just if you would, do that with your argument because that's the most useful information, not speculating about intent. Or if something's omitted from the record, you'll bring that to our attention too. But it's specifically what are the ground rules? In these kinds of proceedings, we are often in the role of referees as well as decision-makers on the merits. And we want to make sure the record's full and complete. Okay.
 And then if you have an argument, like with SHPO, you'll highlight, hopefully, the document and make your argument. One of them is actually in the appeal report that was provided to you a month ago. It might be in front of you today. Well, but we will provide you. I know that you are. I know that you are, and we appreciate that. We will lifeline.
 All right. Any other questions for the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association? Thank you very much. We'll have you back at the end for a rebuttal. And then we'll begin public testimony, but I do want to give our Historic Landmarks Commission members who are here a chance to come up and speak first, since they dedicate an enormous amount of volunteer hours to the city. We'll give them at least a little bit of thanks for that. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. We really appreciate your time today and the great dialogue that's going on here. I think it's really informative and substantial. So we wanted to come as a record.
 I'm sorry, I'm Brian Emmerich. I'm the chair of the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission. And to my right, I've got Jessica Engelman, vice chair of the Landmarks Commission. And at the end of the table, Commissioner Harris-Moderazzo. So we wanted to be here as a resource for you guys. If you guys have questions for us, a lot of what we've obviously deliberated on and voted on has already been included into the record, and staff went through that. So I don't want to repeat a bunch of those points. I want to hit maybe some key points, though. Okay.
 First, this has been a really difficult process for all parties involved. The Landmarks Commission is deeply concerned about the volume of public opposition in this case, and the Water Bureau has dismissed a little of that opposition. There was, in our opinion, a lack of public process employed by the Water Bureau in comparison to what we saw with the Washington Parks Reservoir. And I think this might go somewhat back to what you had mentioned, Commissioner Fish, with the—
 Starting as a type two process and then effectively just kind of got thrown into a type three process. It didn't get thrown into a type three. I was here. So I have a thick file at home called No Good Egos. I'm punished. So I just think just to be clear on the record.
 The community asked to have this converted to a Type 3. I was under no legal obligation to do so. It was not thrown in. I was persuaded by the arguments by very rational people that are here today that we would all benefit from a more robust public process.
 I think that's important, I think, because sometimes we allow our view of the merits of this thing to color the way we characterize the procedure. In fairness, the people who have been involved both there and here, I think we should be careful. Okay. I appreciate that clarification.
 To be clear on our side, I guess it felt like there was less preparation in terms of the process. And we were running directly in parallel, essentially, and just behind the Washington Parks Reservoir project, which, you know, to mention, too, this is all part of a huge multimillion-dollar water upgrade project for the city of Portland. So it's kind of odd to look at this in just a small little silo like this. And that was part of the context that we were thinking about there. So...
 Normally though with the Type 3 process, we get a design advice request to the Landmarks Commission. We have a chance for some collaborative dialogue with public input before we really move to a case hearing. In this case, because of the expedited timeframes, they really wanted to move directly just right into the case hearing.
 quickly through and for a project of this magnitude the time frame was really quite compressed and so that's why to clarify that was what my comment was regarding there between the type two to the type three and the time frame you're referring to is the LT2 compliance time frame
 No, I'm referring to the landmarks timeframe. The Washington Parks reservoirs were probably a year in the making coming back with multiple sessions and collaborative dialogues with the Commission, and this did not go through that same route. In comparison, we actually, although I know you guys had a different experience, when Washington Parks came here, we actually had very little public opposition in those forums and a good discussion, and we felt like they were actually being good stewards of the resource.
 and were then surprised to find this one going a different direction, essentially, from our perspective. Is that because the environmental review had to be done in 120 days? Did that factor into the timeline? No.
 I'm not clear. I understand the Water Bureau was under some challenges with the timeframes that they had to meet, but from our perspective, we didn't get the full normal process that we would usually expect. You're not normally constrained by the 120-day clock. Is that correct? Correct, yeah. I think that might have been a factor of having the environmental review required.
 bundled into this that that by state law has to be done in a certain time frame? And that may be the case too. I'm sure staff could talk more about the legalities of that side than I could.
 By the way, on the question that you make, the point you make about public process collaboration, when we got the report on Washington Park, it was an entirely different exercise. The report from the commission, the testimony that I could at least hear during that hearing or when it came to us. And so –
 of the outcome of this proceeding, I think it's worth debriefing that at some point because you're the ones on the ground dealing with this in the first instance, and all bureaus could learn from a better, I think, public process. Yeah, absolutely. I think that's true, and I'd say, you know, what we saw with Washington Parks is the understanding that this was a...
 historic resource of huge magnitude to the city and interest to the citizens. And it was treated that way with a very thoughtful approach and more of a dialogue coming back and forth, whereas with the Mount Tabor one, what we saw was just kind of a
 well, we're just going to disconnect it, leave them essentially as they are, and so there's really no adverse effect. And here's the letter from SHPO stating that so long as the water is in the reservoir and you really can't see much, we really haven't changed the historic resource. And when we asked the Water Bureau how were they practically going to achieve this goal, we really found their answers to be lacking, to be frank, which was negative.
 you know, how long is it going to take to refill the reservoirs? And we've heard some discussion on that already, and my understanding was two to three weeks. When they testified earlier, I heard 77 days to drain them down, 14 days to clean, seven days to refill. That's 98 days total, not two or three weeks. And when I asked how often they were going to have to do that each year to be able to maintain the quality of the water, it was three to four times a year. So that's...
 It doesn't add up with 98 days per cycle. And as was mentioned earlier, we had the peeing incident last year, and there was a lot of press over draining one reservoir and refilling that.
 And now we're talking about draining three reservoirs three to four times a year, and what is the environmental cost of that in terms of our perception of the city, and also financially, what is the cost of that? It doesn't seem like a sustainable approach. That really gets beyond, though, the purview of the Landmarks Commission, so that's why I'm bringing that point to you guys, because it hasn't really been discussed here in person.
 It feels like there's just really a lack of planning and that these could become the most expensive water features in city history. So is that really – is there a big plan behind this? And that's really a part of why we were concerned and also hearing the concerns of the citizens on the maintenance record of the reservoirs and really wanting to make sure that those reservoirs were protected going forward and not going to be essentially a water container that was then going to be discarded because it no longer had a utilitarian function.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. I don't really have any prepared remarks. Again, more here to be a resource. Sorry, Jessica Ingerman, Vice Chair, Landmarks Commission. Thank you.
 The comments from the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association characterizing our views and expressions during our hearings, I would say, are very accurate, especially the discussion of the two approval criteria related to preserve the historic character and the form and integrity of the resource.
 We were not just willy-nilly trying to attach any you know a plan or historic structures report to that there were approval criteria in mind that we were Wanting to assure that this project would be able to meet both on the short and the long term the long
 the long term. And so hence, without any prior planning, the best that we could do was to take the historic document that was in place and try to fold that into the conditions as a way to ensure the long term preservation of the resource.
 Well, Harris, you may be prepared to talk about Condition E, but if you're not, I wanted to throw that out there to the three of you, and that is it seems to me that the Council may be called on here either to interpret or maybe to clarify what you intended with Condition E, and that is this requirement to implement the restorative recommendations and maintenance recommendations here.
 including the removal of non-historic elements such as light fixtures and conduit. Again, I read that meaning if you're restoring a historic structure and there are non-historic light fixtures and conduit on the outside of it, take them off and replace them with period equipment. But we've heard an interpretation from the Water Bureau saying that might mean we have to remove pump houses. Could you elaborate on what you intended with Condition E?
 Yeah, I mean, it was the former, not the latter. And lacking a better tool, which, again, an applicant could have brought to the hearing of, here are the things we propose to do, we were left with having to adopt a report, which the Water Bureau, as the neighborhood testified, had said they'd already essentially adopted, just not officially. So the intent was really to get rid of the, you know, the,
 the security lighting, which was no longer to be required because they're no longer, you know, public water, and remove some of the effects over time of, like, the conduit and things like that. Not go in and, you know, take out functional elements of the water system or pump houses or things of that nature. Thank you. Harris, welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Harris Matarazzo, Landmarks Commissioner. I would reiterate what has been said, and I won't repeat that by my fellow commissioners, but I would just like you to know what you probably already do, and that is that we met on at least three different occasions, I've heard four, but I think it was only three, to consider this matter. It was very contentious, probably the most contentious Commission meeting I have ever been at, and I attribute that largely to a lack of communication between the parties, and I'm sorry to say that.
 We initially split, I believe at our second meeting, as to what to do. We split three-three, and at that time, I asked the parties, we called them up. As we spoke to them, I asked them each if they would be willing to submit to some kind of mediation, some kind of dispute resolution, non-binding, just to talk.
 And the neighborhood association and others agreed the Water Bureau would not make that kind of a commitment. And this, again, was non-binding. And that, to me, really caused me to think in a much different way about what was before us. And I think, frankly, again today when we're, for the first time, this commission is hearing about, as Brian was talking about, costs and timelines to drain reservoirs, the removal of pumps, which would obviously make...
 the vessel one that couldn't be used as a reservoir. I mean, none of that stuff was brought up, and certainly there was a time and occasion to do that, and frankly, it's very disheartening, disconcerting. It really wastes all of our time as commission members, and I don't want to ascribe any bad intent to anybody, but I have seen here something that I probably would never wish to be involved in again as a commission member, and I frankly...
 If I ever had any aspiration to be a city council member, those hearings would have completely eliminated that. It was really that horrible of an experience, and frankly, a sad one, because this was not a dispute between neighbors, but a city agency and the people it serves. Hey, folks, please. Let's not...
 No pause. Thumbs up are fine. Thank you. Go ahead. Just briefly, so condition B about the maintenance of the reservoir's water level. Go ahead. He's answering the question. That's fine. Go ahead. That was included because of concerns that the reservoir not turn into a skateboard park or something like that, that in fact actually it's there not only was built as a utility but also as an aesthetic destination and that by maintaining a certain level of water there
 the aesthetic portion of its purpose could be maintained. And also, we talked a lot about filling and refilling the reservoir, so this is not a new issue because we didn't want it to become a mosquito breeding ground. The water needs to be refreshed periodically.
 And so we've believed as a commissioner, at least I'm speaking for myself, I believe as a commissioner that without a detailed plan to make sure that that water was maintained at historic levels, that somebody would be back before you or in court or some other way and needs to be resolved at this level and eliminated as an issue. On the matter of Condition E, the implementation of the May 9, 2009 Mount Tabor Reservoir's historic structures report, again it's been spoken to but here's this report, it's out there.
 It hasn't really been implemented, and it needs to be. Frankly, the Water Bureau is tasked with providing clean water to our citizens. It is really not in the business of historic preservation.
 And I believe as a commissioner it really should not be in that business because it's not part of its mission. It does what it does very, very well, and we're lucky to have them. But it really needs to be removed from their oversight, in my opinion. And this maintenance plan needs to be implemented, and there needs to be some kind of oversight. If Water Bureau is continuing to do it, they need to do it with some kind of a plan to make sure that it gets done. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any other questions, please?
 and i was hoping i wouldn't have to make this comment but um harris i'm the fourth commissioner in charge of the water bureau in two and a half years and so i'm not going to make this comment because i feel obliged to defend the water bureau for all the events of the last decade or beyond but i will tell you i think it's a bit disingenuous to say that you didn't understand why there's some conflict over this issue and in the defense of the of the water bureau
 It is the city of Portland that has set the policies with respect to the future of the Mount Tabor reservoirs, not the Water Bureau. It is the city of Portland that's negotiated timelines with the EPA on LT2, not the Water Bureau. It is the city of Portland that has made the policy decisions, consistently putting the Water Bureau in the front lines of a very contentious debate, probably the most contentious debate I've ever seen. So I would just say in defense of the Water Bureau,
 Can any bureau do public process better? Yes. Your comments about how to make this a more fruitful proceeding administratively at landmarks is important. But I think it's very unfortunate to demonize the Water Bureau in this dispute. There is a fundamental disagreement in our community about the future of the reservoirs, and I respect both sides of that debate. I respect the people that are here that have passionately fought against every step of the decommissioning of the reservoirs.
 But that is the underlying history of this. And Commissioner Fritz and I were at a public forum that was shut down because people didn't want to have a discussion around community process. It is true. And so what I would say to you is to leave that – please, to leave that context out I think is unfortunate. And to disparage the Water Bureau I think is unfair. Can we do better? Sure.
 Can the Bureau do better? Sure. But again, I'm the fourth commissioner in two and a half years. What's helpful to us at this proceeding is not making comments like that but is addressing the merits of the dispute because that's how we have to decide, not who wears the – who's the good guy or the bad guy in the equation.
 And I regret we go there, Mayor, and I don't think it's appropriate for this hearing to develop a record in that respect. Well, if I may respond, I certainly appreciate everything you said, and that was not my purpose to disparage the Water Bureau. But let me tell you something that came up. First of all, I understand that we're a quasi-judicial agency, and I'm just giving you my opinion, and you can take a look at the testimony that I've submitted to date.
 I certainly understand the EPA issues, that is beyond our purview. The thing that, and I went into this with a completely open mind, but it began to change when the Water Bureau admitted on the record that it had refused to engage with the citizenry
 And I don't understand that. I'm not trying to demonize the Water Bureau. What I'm trying to say is open dialogue needs to occur. And I don't think that happened in this situation. And I would ask you, if you wanted to review the oral record that was made, that was really very telling for me.
 And we have that here, so that's helpful. We have that, so thank you. And I mean no disrespect, and I appreciate your willingness to make your comments to me. Thank you. Well, we appreciate the three of you and the rest of your colleagues on the commission for all the hours you put on these cases. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you all very much. Thank you. Let's move on into the sign-up sheet then, please. The first three people, number one, two, and three, are Mary Ann Schwab, Mark Bartlett, and John Loggin.
 And they'll be followed by number four, five, and six, Steve Gordon, Steve Wax, and Eileen Brady. Okay.
 And you got the last word on the budget and you get the first word on this I don't know how you do it Well, they're no cookies though today before everybody starts. We have how many do we have signed up Carla? 40 I think about 40 people signed up two minutes apiece 52 52 so try to make it Yeah If you can be really diligent to us about stopping when your time is up that means we can get to hear from as many People as possible. Let's go with Steve Gordon with this group now. Okay, Mary Ann go ahead while others are getting queued up. Oh
 Good afternoon. This is Mary Ann Schwab. I'm here today to speak for the Southeast Uplift, and we have a couple questions here because we don't remember being heard on this. January 21st, we wrote, Dear Mayor Hales, Commissioners Fish, Fritz, Novick, and Salzman, Open Reservation Resolution. In 2004, Mayor Katz appointed the citizen representatives of the community to open reservoirs independently.
 Review a panel after six months of review the panel voted by the majority to retain our open reservoirs at Mount Tabor in Washington Park and
 The EPA LT2 drinking water regulation is being reviewed into 2016, so there's time to stop the destruction and disconnecting of our open reservoirs. New York City and the utilities in New York, along with New Jersey, and now in discussion with EPA. The City of Portland received scientific evidence to support the EPA LT2 waiver.
 The Board of Directors of Southeast Uplift requests the City of Portland invite Senators Merkley and Wyden, along with the rest of the Oregon Congressional Delegation, to work with New York and New Jersey in requesting the open reservoir EPA waiver, stopping the costly and unnecessary removal of the open reservoirs, saving money, and keeping our water safe.
 Marianne, I didn't interrupt you because you're representing a neighborhood coalition, but your testimony is not on the issue. And that is we're not here having a hearing on the LT2 issue. We're having a hearing on the Landmarks Commission's decision and the two appeals of that decision. And under state land use law, we have to focus on that decision here, not on the larger question.
 So I'm going to give you a minute. If you have other points that you want to make that are specific to the appeal, and I want to ask other folks who follow Mary Ann, again, that's the deal. We have to be on this case because we're acting on a land use case. We're not acting on city policy overall. So if you have any other specific points about things you agree with either the Water Bureau or the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association about, this would be a good time to put those on the record.
 What I'm going to say is December 1st, I did attend the Historic Land Use Commission meeting, and I did reference my conversation with Mr. Fish regarding the level of water he said was going to be 12 inches. I said, please, in your reports, you must quantify the water in those reports, and please table this until...
 All reports are finished, and that's what I'm basing this on. I'm asking all of you to stop the clock. Let's have that discussion that the attorney, Amad Arazo, has suggested, and let's step back, save some money, and do it. There's no rush. Let's do it right. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. Carla had a handout for you. Oh, okay. Carla, you have a handout for us? Yes.
 Go ahead and she'll get it to us while you're speaking. Mark Bartlett. Thanks, Mike. I was on the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Board for a number of years, and I've done land use. It's hard to hear you. I've done land use for a living and have applied for every kind of application you guys offer. My sympathies. I know the drill. So I'd like to tag on to what John and Stephanie said about the conditional use. It's a procedural issue, and I've questioned it from the beginning once I saw the staff report. I filed...
 for a new use determination, thinking that the old use that they were relying on was no longer valid. So I did that on January 5th. You can see I paid the $850. As of today, I still don't have it. Five months later, I wonder why.
 No one can answer. They just don't respond. In fact, BDS staff has told me that the city interdienst instructed them not to talk to me or to Mount Tabor and answer our questions about this, because with that application comes the early assistance meetings and the design review meetings where you get a chance to talk with the staff and to landmarks. They were at first offering to schedule those meetings for me, but then later I got a phone call from Jill Grunda who said,
 We're not going to schedule those meetings for you. Well, why? Mr. Bartlett, the materials you've given us, and I'm not familiar with this dispute with the Bureau of Development Services, but there's an exchange with the district attorney who ultimately has you. That's my next point. Well, but the letter you've given us from the DA says he will process your petition if he receives the necessary documents. Is there a follow-up document that you have you want to show? January 5th, I filed for the use determination. February 6th.
 or January 7th, February 5th, since they did not respond in a timely fashion, I filed for a document request trying to pull it and extract the information I wanted that way. And so far they've refused to respond to that either, no matter what the DA has said to them. The DA has said to you that as soon as – I did file those. Pardon me? I did. And you see one of the other pages there is I actually paid the 50% on March 20th. I'm saying this for your benefit, so let me – just give me one second.
 The document you have given us is a letter from the district attorney saying that your request is incomplete. No, that was a letter to me just to show that the DEA has intervened. I have seven or eight different correspondences with them. Yes, sir. When I receive the necessary documents, I can turn to your appeal. I did send those. And did you get a subsequent letter from the district attorney? I got...
 numerous emails. I've been corresponding with him over the period of time. Has he issued, has his office issued a directive? Yes, he has. He asked and he said the city attorney, they had contacted the city attorney and they're waiting for a response from them, but that was weeks ago. And one more issue about the trees. By the construction documents, there's going to be 81 trees impacted, some of which are as large as 48 or 50 inches, so the representation, the look won't change, it's just not accurate.
 Thank you. So I'd like to hear why I'm not getting the use determination. That's a reasonable question. We'll try to find out. Five months later, they told me it'd take four weeks. Okay. Thank you. And Nor has Southeast Upload received a response from this letter.
 Thank you. Thank you both, thanks. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name's Dr. Steve Gordon. I'm a citizen. I live at 1209 Southeast 60th Avenue in Mount Tabor. I'm an internal medicine physician by background, but the majority of my career has been spent in executive leadership roles for a number of large healthcare systems in this region and this state.
 I also serve on a number of public boards and committees, mostly at the state level. So I'm no stranger to public process, and I say that in full respect and appreciation for the time and energy and focus that you're providing to this important issue here today. So thank you for that.
 I'm also a runner and rain or shine I jog through Mount Tabor Park. I go up and down the hill every day circumnavigating each reservoir, all three of them along the way. After 20 years I've done this about more than 5,000 times. And for 20 years therefore I've also seen the reservoirs cleaned, drained and filled a number of times.
 I wanted just to focus my moment here on the issue of accuracy and completeness of cost estimates, and that's come up a number of times here already. The basis of my position was really focused on a figure which hasn't surfaced here today but has been drifting through testimony, oral and written now, for more than a year, and that is the estimation that the Water Bureau has put forward of $90,000 for cost of construction.
 cleaning. And I have to tell you, in running the reservoirs, I have a lot of time to think, and I can't make this number pan out. As we've heard, it takes two or three guys, two or three days to clean the reservoirs. And when I do the math, it comes out to $3,000 to $4,000. I can't make $90,000 work. So therefore, I'm questioning the
 validity of the other estimates. And Commissioner Fritz, you also said, you know, how did he get to $8 million? I'm saying, how did he get to $90,000? That's my simple point is, Commissioner Fish, you said, you know, let's have a valid factual basis for our discussion, and that's my request of you today. Great. Thank you very much. Okay. Next three. Our Steve Wax, Eileen Brady, and Dan Berger, number five, six, and seven.
 And they'll be followed by Valerie Hunter, Brian Roeder, and Mary Kinnick, number 8, 9, and 10. Welcome. I think you're on first, Steve. Thank you. Steve Wax, retired recently, is your federal defender, currently director of Oregon's Innocence Project. I'm here to talk about equity and process. Couldn't you guess? Process. Process.
 I appreciate, Commissioner Fish, the exchange you had with Mr. Matarazzo. I want to offer a cent or two, and Commissioner Fritz, this will also, I think, relate to your comment about process.
 What is not in the record at this point is that the Citizens Advisory Commission that was constituted and did attempt to and did do some work with the Water Bureau was explicitly told it could not discuss what comes next, that the questions which are currently before you on this appeal were off the table.
 So while there was some process for which there is appreciation, it is critical for you to understand how limited that process was. Steve, can I ask a question on that? Please. I understood there was a robust discussion about where the pipes would be located and what trees would or would not be removed, and that's an issue before us. Are you saying that did not happen?
 No, those issues were discussed and there was some discussion that did lead to some amendment of the proposal that the Water Bureau submitted. What was explicitly told was off the table was any conversation about the two conditions that are before you. Is there going to be water? How will that water be maintained? And second, what is going to be done about the crumbling infrastructure? Okay.
 Second point I want to make with respect to the record before you and the accuracy of some of the comments that have been made. As a person who, like Dr. Gordon, is in the park every day, I was surprised to hear Ms. Miner say how careful they are in maintaining the park. That is just simply not consistent with my observation. The path around Reservoir 6, when it was repaired a number of years ago, it is blacktop.
 And as I walk the paths on all the reservoirs, I'm continually dealing with the uneven nature. So in terms of some of the comments, the difference between the process with respect to Washington Park and Mount Tabor Park in terms of equity is something that I think is critical for you to focus on. The acrimony that exists with respect to the decommissioning
 That is something that many of us have attempted to avoid and have attempted to engage with the Water Bureau on these land use issues. And the record is just not accurate. The SHPO comment, you have it before you. March 20th of 2015, emails to Ms. Stewart and to Ms. Brady, they explicitly said...
 that their no adverse effect finding was based on the fact that there would be water in the reservoirs. And what I see and what the Water Bureau is saying is something that I have unfortunately seen too many times in my legal career, the elision of critical words. They said, and it's in front of you,
 If the water is not maintained, they can reopen the process to make sure that their finding of no adverse effect is met. Steve, on the equity point, can I just follow up on that? Sure. Okay.
 When we had the hearing on Washington Park, the reservoir disconnect, the Arlington Heights Neighborhood Association came forward and testified in support of the proposal, which is to bury the reservoirs and then create a water feature above and do some historic restoration. Okay.
 I think one difference worth noting is I don't believe the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association ever supported the burial of the reservoirs at the site. You'll correct me if I'm wrong. Well, with Commissioner Saltzman, my wife was one of the chairs of the group that he assisted in putting together in 2004 that worked very diligently to come up with a plan for what goes on top.
 and that resulted in the roughly $14 million statement by either the city or the Water Bureau at the time. So to be sure, some people have been fighting tooth and nail. Many of us have been working diligently to try to preserve what we're talking about today and continue.
 I can speak for myself and my wife since we were very, very directly involved with Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you so much. I want to say that long before this land use proceeding, you actually came to my office and shared some thoughts in a very collegial and helpful way, and so I appreciate the approach that you've taken. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Brady, welcome.
 Welcome. Hello. I'm Eileen Brady. I am among other things. I sat on the 2004 independent review panel that Commissioner Saltzman put me on to review this issue. He told me it was going to be a 90-day process, and I am 11 years into it. So somewhere there's got to be retribution. And I understand that it's much easier to be an advocate than to be an elected official.
 and that you have to weigh multiple considerations as you make your decisions. And I know and I appreciate that Commissioner Fish and Fritz have tried to bridge the gap around the LT2 requirements, the Water Bureau's needs, and the citizens' concerns.
 Unfortunately, I think you're also seeing an issue that some of the underlying issues that there's a lack of trust between the Water Bureau and the community that ultimately I think we all agree nobody wants a distrustful relationship there. You're having to struggle with that. In that spirit, I ask you to carefully review the HLC decision. I sat through the hearings. I think it's a balanced decision. The Historic Landmarks Commission cited, just remember this, they cited in favor of disconnecting.
 Because that was the original application. What the dispute is over is a couple of appendages, a couple of approval conditions.
 The Commission, as they indicated, they listened to testimony, ad nauseum I might say. Anything from radon to the disconnection to the disparities between Mount Tabor Park and Washington Park. And they came up with two very, very reasonable conditions out of that whole basket of things that they wanted to attach to this application. And...
 I would just state that number one of them has to do with how many days are you going to leave the reservoir empty? Let's get a date. We need to ask these guys. Is it 66? Is it 77? Is it 98? Is it 365? Sadly, I think because of the distrust issue, there is a need to actually say how many days the water bill will leave the reservoirs empty. Give you just a minute to talk about that. Sorry about that.
 And the other really is about this, the reasonable amount of preservation the structures are required to maintain. Well, I mean, how much is required to maintain these structures? They told us it was $1.5 million, which we thought up against $1.
 Washington Park, $76 million. It was kind of a reasonable request. And even up against the $14 million for the What Goes on Top project from 2004, we thought we were doing okay. And we continue to get surprising information. I don't fault them. I think that they're very busy, they're overworked, but it's very difficult to deal with that information. I'm hoping that since Condition E was the reason
 that the Commission made a unanimous decision. It was the condition that got them over it, that you can find some way of embracing that condition. Thank you very much. Were you happy with the Landmarks Commission's explanation here that I elicited from them about what they intended with Condition E?
 that it's restore and repair and if there are non-historic features attached to or appurtenant to those restoration projects, get them right in terms of historic features, but don't remove modern pump houses that have to be . Absolutely. Mayor, I think that you're absolutely on it. The devil's in the details. We didn't get a chance to get into all the details. I think there's more agreement than not on this issue. Can I follow up on that? Thank you. Because I'm so encouraged by you saying that. If we have dueling appeals.
 I think it's important to note that we have two appeals coming to this body, two different sets of concerns that have been raised. And you've had a role in one of the appeals, the Water Bureau, on the other. So do you foresee a situation if we are able to identify the areas of disagreement where, in effect, the council could ratify some agreement made between the appellants and this matter would end?
 Meaning no further appeals? I do. In fact, I know that in the letter that the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association attached to
 God love them. I love the neighborhood's honesty. They said we wouldn't be submitting this appeal if the Water Bureau hadn't appealed. And so I think that's an indicator to you that the strength of the HLDC decision was so strong that the neighbors did support it originally. And the reason I ask is because the neighborhood has raised issues that are quite distinct from the issues that the Water Bureau has raised. They are much broader. There's a whole range of other issues involved.
 which could go on. I think it certainly was an opportunity to throw in some other, you know, we have an opportunity to keep the record open, throw in some other pieces to the puzzle. I certainly think the Scribner's error should be corrected, and I know that that's a high priority for Stephanie and her team. I just want to say I'm encouraged by your view that there might be some middle ground that the parties could agree to because we have two appellants, and sometimes the best decisions we make as a body, as a deliberative body, is we ratify a community agreement.
 Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Greetings. Dr. Daniel Berger. I'm a physician specializing in emergency medicine serving Portland for over 13 years.
 Dearest Mayor and City Council, Portland Water Bureau claims to be stewards of these historic resources, yet at the recent Washington Park Historic Landmarks Commission hearing, Portland Water Bureau's own Teresa Black states they have been, quote, stewards of the structure and utility, not the aesthetic elements, as they have let that structure fall into decay. So what happens when the utility goes away?
 One need look no further than in the offline Mount Tabor Reservoir 6, which has contained less than 12 inches of water in it for nearly a year, as a prime example of their lack of dedication to the public good. And there's some photos attached to my document if you have it in front of you, if you haven't been there recently.
 Why is Mount Tabor, a travel destination, postcard picture perfect historic gem of our fair city, sitting empty when the Water Bureau claims they are dedicated to keeping it filled? How does this reflect on our city when folks from afar come to visit the legendary Portland? What a disgrace. It's passive aggressive against the community at best and a failure of proper management from any perspective. Thank you.
 This only further exemplifies that Portland Water Bureau cannot be blindly trusted to hold our city's best interests at heart, as they clearly have such contempt and disregard for our history, communities, and citizens, endlessly raising rates for exorbitant projects we don't need, feeding its corporate partners along the way. Eric, this is not... Hold on a minute. City Council must uphold the HLC's... Excuse me. City Council must uphold the HLC's decision and direct Portland Water Bureau to comply, because clearly they will not on their own. And I think that's the intention of the HLC's ruling.
 In many regards, I'm not sure what even needs deliberation here. Commissioner Fritz's own public survey showed nearly 80% of Portlanders wanted reservoirs to remain full and continue to hold their historic integrity. The city's own appointed Historic Landmarks Commission unanimously voted to approve the project only with these strong conditions. Clearly, this is what the public and the experts desire, and it's the cheapest and easiest of all options, so it seems a no-brainer.
 I implore you once again as fellow citizens, please be the heroes we elected you to be. Uphold your pledge towards good governance and justice in representing the will of the people, not our corporate contractors and profiteers. Mount Tabor Park represents one of the spiritual energy centers of Portland, and its reservoirs are a huge part of this. If we destroy the energy centers of our city, then all its special charm and spirit will go away as well. For the love of all things sacred, please do not let that happen. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thanks very much. Hey, folks.
 Thumbs up, okay. Pause not, please. And we encourage you, if you think it's within your quasi-judicial purview, direct the Water Bureau to sit down, and we'll try to negotiate. Thank you. Next three are number 7, 8, and 9, Dan Berger, Valerie Hunter. Mr. Berger's been up, so. Oh, sorry. Valerie Hunter, Brian Roeder, and Mary Kinnick. It's 8, 9, and 10, 11, 12, and 13 will be Laura Orr, Kim Lakin, and Tom Walsh.
 Mr. Roeder, go ahead. All others are getting settled. Welcome. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Brian Roeder. I'm the former CEO and board chair of New Seasons Market. In that role, I've sat in this chair before as an applicant in land use reviews. As the applicant, it was clear to me that I had the burden of proof that all elements of the approval criteria would be satisfied. Thank you.
 This meant that I had to prepare a detailed and complete application and that I needed to be responsive to input from BDS staff and from the hearings body. I also knew that I might be subject to conditions such as off-site improvements. The contrast between what I experienced as a private citizen and what is happening with the Water Bureau is startling. The Water Bureau initially tried to deny that a Type 3 review was even necessary, which would have shut the community out of the entire process.
 The Water Bureau's application was full of holes and lacking information that was essential for the historic landmark commissioners to make an informed decision. They resisted making adjustments to the proposal even when requested by BDS staff and by the commissioners. Even when urged by the HLC to engage with the representatives of Mount Tabor Association to try and come to consensus, which could have avoided this time-consuming and expensive process, they refused.
 Their response to the conditions HLC unanimously placed upon their approval is that they don't have the dollars in their budget. If I as a private citizen would have been as dismissive to the hearings officer as the water bureau was to the HLC, my application would have been denied. If I told the hearings officer, or I told you, the city commissioners, that I couldn't meet the criteria because I couldn't afford it, but please couldn't I just proceed anyway, I would have been laughed out of these chambers.
 The city has an obligation to expect at least as much from our own bureaus as we do from the business community or from private citizens. In this instance, that threshold has not been met.
 I urge you to respect and accept the unanimous decision of your historic landmark commission and to deny the appeal from the Water Bureau. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hey, folks. Again, no pause, but thumbs up for fine. So please go ahead. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Mary Kinnick, and I'm here on behalf of the Friends of Mount Tabor Park Board, where I serve as co-chair and also as coordinator of, I guess, what some of you have heard of is the Weed Warrior Program. Okay.
 Weeds being invasive species, I should say that. One of our goals is to protect and preserve the ecological health of this Doug Fir Western Hemlock woodland. Our board supported the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association position presented before the Historic Landmarks Commission. But I want to pose some questions and then offer what I think is one answer to all of these questions. And you will have heard some of these questions already already.
 Why was there no public process before the Water Bureau presented its initial reservoir disconnect plan? Way back when. Why did the Neighborhood Association have to initiate a request for citizen involvement? Why has the Water Bureau failed to provide adequate historic maintenance of the reservoirs? Check out Reservoir 1, as I did yesterday, and you'll want to weep. Why does the Water Bureau not seem concerned about how much water remains in the reservoirs or how long they stand empty?
 And why early on wasn't their proposal subject to a conditional use review? The new pipe goes beyond Water Bureau land and extends into Parks land, claiming more land where no trees may be planted. The answer that I've come to, and our board has come to, is because all along the Water Bureau views this only as an engineering project. Why engage the public for small-scale technical project involving pipes, nuts, and bolts?
 But this site is a complex one, and this project must be viewed through the lens of stewardship, of a resource listed on the National Register, a lens through which preserving native landscape and aesthetic beauty is a requirement. I urge you to side with the Neighborhood Association's appeal and protect.
 and preserve this historic park. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Dr. Valerie Hunter. I am a radiologist, and I was on Commissioner Saltzman's 2003 to 2002 to 2003 report
 Mount Tabor Open Reservoir Replacement Project Citizen Advisory Panel. This is like a reunion tour. Eileen Brady was on it, Tom Walsh. Who else is here that was? He was on the IRP. It was a different panel called by Dr. Sall. So I want to just sort of harken back to those days of yore when we were making some related decisions.
 In 2002, the decision had already been made by council to accelerate by several decades the plan to remove the open reservoirs. The plan was to build buried storage tanks in the footprints of the reservoirs with the new park features on top. Commissioner Saltzman appointed a citizen's advisory panel, which was called the What's On Top panel, to guide this redevelopment process.
 The PAC, after much labor and hundreds of hours, produced a thoughtful design guidance document emphasizing historic preservation and water. And after that, there was a design competition, and the winner of the competition was this mind-blowing, fantastic project with water features and hardscape and public interaction with water and whatnot. The estimated cost of this concept was never publicized.
 So all this raises the question, how much money was really involved in that initial promised effort to build this fabulous park on top of the buried tanks? Because this relates, I think, to the money that we're now talking about not having to do basic maintenance at the reservoirs. So hearkening back, in July 2002, the budget for the Reservoir Replacement Project passed by Council included $2.5 million for what goes on top.
 In October 2002, Council passed Water Bureau's new cost estimate of $13.4 million for what goes on top. In an October 2003 letter to Mayor Katz from Water Bureau and Parks referenced a Council-approved budget of $14 million for what goes on top.
 now this was taking place in a climate of the usual city budget fault shortfalls we have a memo from mayor cats to that effect okay well what i just want to say is that if in 2003 we could promise 14 million to build this fabulous park in addition to preserving historic features
 I humbly request that you find some of that money today to just conserve the treasure that we have and preserve it for our future. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, let's take the next three folks, please. All right, number 11, Laura Orr, 12, Kim Lakin, and 13, Tom Walsh, and they'll be followed by 14, Dave Hiltz, 15, Miriam Berman, and 16, Tom Kohler. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Laura Orr, and I'm a second-generation Mount Tabor resident. By profession, I've been the director of the Washington County Law Library for more than 13 years and the founder of the Oregon Legal Research website and blog, very popular, believe it or not, in my small world.
 I'm here today to ask you to vote in favor of the historic landmark commission's decision and those suggestions from the Mount Neighborhood Association that strengthen that decision, such as the request for a conditional use review. Affirming the historic landmark commission's King Solomon-like solution to this seemingly intractable political problem makes you look sagacious, fair, and maybe even prescient.
 I didn't realize I needed a dictionary. That affirmation may earn you credit later for establishing the groundwork and standard of review that will enable future generations of Mount Tabor Park visitors to experience the most beautiful Portland Park between the Willamette River and Mount Hood, and not just view photographs of what it used to be or what it might have been.
 Portland Historic Landmarks Commission members do not serve in name only. The commission has proven their professional expertise and diplomatic jobs. Like you, I rely on expert advisory boards, minor lawyers and judges. I know the risk of not heeding dedicated hardworking advisory board members. We have a continuing need for volunteer board members who are smart, engaged and better gatekeepers of the spirit of Portland than we can ever be on our own.
 Who will volunteer as our advisors if we dismiss their work out of hand without understanding fully the complex and thoughtful reasons for their decisions? Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thanks. My name's Kim Lakin. I've been a historic preservation consultant for over 25 years. I am a co-author of the National Register nominations for the Mount Tabor and Washington Park reservoirs and the Mount Tabor Park.
 I also served as a citizen volunteer advisor to the Water Bureau on the 2009 Historic Structures Report. I urge you to affirm the findings of the Historic Landmarks Commission. The HLC decision was obviously not made lightly, but with considerable thought. Criterion 1 states, retain historic character.
 Given the reservoirs are recognized both locally and nationally, and given that water is a significant part of the historic character of a reservoir, water must be retained in the reservoir basins. The HLC's Condition B provides the Water Bureau specifics to adhere to. In this case, the specifics are necessary as the Water Bureau has consistently demonstrated a lack of respect and understanding for these resources.
 Criterion 9 states preserve the form and integrity of the historic resources. The HLC has required that preservation procedures be implemented as part of their approval. In order to preserve the integrity and form of the reservoirs, the Historic Structures Report must be funded and implemented. In six years, only one project has been completed, and further deterioration has occurred. This demolition by neglect must stop.
 I would ask the council to use its policy and budgetary authority to direct the Water Bureau to carry out the preservation actions outlined in the 2009 Historic Structures Report. The council has a responsibility to protect one of the city's most significant historic resources.
 Please exercise your authority and position to sustain this important Portland legacy for future generations. Thank you. Kim, thank you for your thoughtful testimony. As I was thinking about what you said, do you have an opinion as to assuming the reservoirs no longer serve any function with respect to the water supply?
 as to who in the city government should be the – who you believe is the appropriate custodian for the water – for the reservoirs. Commissioner, that is so not the subject of this review. I appreciate that. We should have that discussion, but probably not now. I would ask the question. Well, I just kind of know where you're going with it, so I want to have that discussion ourselves. Yes.
 I don't know if I'm the right person to be asking the question. It's a very complex issue because of budget. I mean, it's in the Waterbury purview right now. They're the ones, they have money. They have an income stream. I mean, personally, it's probably maybe the best place for it to be as long as there's somebody instructing them to take care of this property and there's money for them to do so.
 It could very logically go into parks as a park, but parks doesn't have a great income stream. So I don't see, I mean it's something I've thought about, I've wondered about. I don't have the answer, but I
 I mean, it's something that we should figure out, and I truly believe we need to fund the preservation and maintenance of these resources. Let me just say thank you for testifying today. It's very rare in our proceedings where we have a report that has, like we have in the 2009, that is so fundamental to our decision, and someone comes to testify who had something to do with it. So thank you for your time. Thanks. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Tom Walsh. I had the pleasure years ago of serving on the Mount Tabor Reservoir Advisory Committee. Three very short comments. The importance of this subject which you are hearing about today is significant.
 The passions are clearly great, and I think the differences are very small. Commissioner Fish, your dialogue with Eileen Brady just a few moments ago pointed out that there are answers. They are available.
 I think the process that the council might consider is back with the Historic Landmarks Commission decision and whether they serve as a moderator or as a mediator, that in my experience will be the foundation for finding a very, very equitable, very sensible and long-term decision.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, next three, please. Number 14, Dave Hiltz. 15, Miriam Berman. And 16, Tom Kohler. And they'll be followed by 17, Don Smallman. 18, Martha Mitchell. And 19, Robert Bernstein. Good afternoon and welcome. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Dave Hiltz. Good morning, Mayor.
 I was an architect for 22 years. Half of that time I was the land use chair for the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, so I was lucky enough to preside over the first what goes on top fiasco that was polarizing for our neighborhood. I'm currently a landlord. I started a business that has three different buildings with apartments ranging from 16 to 25 units.
 and I choose to maintain them because I have pride in my buildings and I have pride in my city. Providing residents of Portland with a nice place to live is imperative, and as we grow, it becomes even more of an issue. The Historic Landmark Commission spent almost two and a half months listening to public testimony and thinking about how best to resolve problems
 the issue that they got set in their lap. And that issue was, how do we maintain the historic viability of the reservoirs without destroying them? There are two different things. You've got a utility and you've got a park and you've got an incredible reservoir system that's operated flawlessly for years. The Neighborhood Association has come together
 back and forth over the years with issues with the park and the maintenance of the reservoirs, and the Water Bureau clearly has not maintained them. So as a landlord, I urge you guys to be a landlord and not a slumlord and support the Neighborhood Association and their application to save our reservoirs. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Miriam Berman, and I live in Mount Tabor overlooking Reservoir 6. My husband Michael and I own a local small business called Nutcase Helmets, and we employ 16 other Portlanders in our southeast office. Our helmets are sold across the U.S. and in over 30 countries.
 We traveled the world proudly representing Portland as part of the athletic and outdoor industry and the creative community that keeps Portland weird. Speaking of athletic and outdoors, Mount Tabor is the east side home for biking, hiking, picnicking, sledding when we get snow, playgrounds, and my favorite, the dog park. Now add the beauty of Reservoirs 5 and 6, filled with water. What a treasure.
 I show it off to my friends and colleagues that visit from around the world. Unfortunately, I can't imagine people visiting Mount Tabor seeing an empty or partially filled reservoir, basically a whole lot of cement, and deciding to return for their outdoor enjoyment. The reservoirs make Mount Tabor the southeast Portland showpiece that it is.
 What you may not know about my prior life is that I used to be a teacher for deaf and hard of hearing students. Sign language can be very expressive. For example, this is the sign for the reservoir of how we would like it to look. Water, full. What it looks like now, water, not so full. Hopefully you can get the idea that we would like it more full. Most importantly, today is my birthday.
 And for my birthday, I decided to come to support our vision of Mount Tabor Park and its historic reservoirs. I have one birthday wish, and that is to return Mount Tabor to the original grandeur, air-appropriate lighting, repaired, safe walkways, electrical boxes that are not in disrepair, and basically historic beauty.
 You're the only ones who can grant me my birthday wish, but to be honest, it's not just for me. It's for all of Portland and our visitors. Restore Mount Tabor to its majestic beauty. Thank you. Thank you. Happy birthday. Thank you. We'll suspend the rules to say happy birthday. Welcome. Thank you.
 Tom Curler, and I'm a lifelong resident of Portland, Oregon, and also on the school board, Portland Public School Board. I'm here today not on that role, but I was thinking that this would be a heck of a case study for our students in high school, civics class, from the very beginning. It really has all the – it's got it all in terms of what –
 democracy can and cannot do. I'm very supportive of the landmark's position and would hope that you would support it. In summary, it's keeping the reservoirs full for the iconic view, and it's also maintaining them.
 And to answer your question, Commissioner Fish, I hope you take responsibility for these reservoirs because it is a water utility. It is being disconnected. They've made a big deal about reversibility, the whole notion of backup and redundancy. We need to protect and maintain these reservoirs. So thank you for your consideration. Thank you all.
 Okay. The next three are 17, Don Smallman, 18, Martha Mitchell, and 19, Robert Bernstein. And they'll be followed by number 20, Mark Schlemmer, 21, Mary Eng, and 22, Catherine Kirkpatrick. Good afternoon. Welcome. Go ahead if you're ready. Thank you.
 My name is Dawn Smallman. I'm a homeowner in Mount Tabor neighborhood association, or in Mount Tabor neighborhood. I'm also a member of the MTNA, the neighborhood association. I've worked on reservoir issues for a number of years with the MTNA and in the community. I'm also a member of the citizen advisory committee that worked on this exact process.
 First off, I just want to say thank you to Commissioner Fritz. None of us would be sitting here today if it wasn't you helping the community get publicly involved in this process. I think the community owes a deep amount of gratitude and debt towards you. When we said, how do we get involved? Why is no one involved? You said, why?
 Let me help pave the way for your involvement, public. So I really feel it's important to acknowledge that you did that for us, and thank you for that. I'm here today to ask you to honor the result of the city's own public process that was the CAC. It was...
 neither side got exactly what they wanted. We met in the middle, and we came out with specific outcomes of that process. Yet I'm sitting here today asking you to please honor that process. And that gets to the root of the frustration of being the kind of person in the community who's willing to set up
 to stand up and sit on these public processes, and the frustration of what the actuality of that as a reality means for people who have to donate their time, who aren't getting paid the way city employees are getting paid to sit in on the process, and all those kind of things. I'm taking the day off work to come here to say, please do the things that you agreed with us to do months ago when we sat through many hours of volunteer work. That irony is not lost on me. I'm also sitting across the street.
 listening to an audio and video feed that's not going well instead of sitting in 80 empty seats here. So that isn't lost on me in the public process either. I would like you to please deny the Water Bureau's appeal. I would like you to maintain the reservoirs at historic levels, that's what the CAC called for, to periodically clean them, refresh them with clean water, that was what the CAC agreed to, and preserve them as historic structures. That was in our agreement as well. I think it's really important that I be able to address the
 Other people from the Water Bureau can sit here and say, the Water Bureau is great stewards. I disagree with that statement. I had a moment during the CAC where it became crystal clear to me when they were going to cut down a large stand of old-growth trees. And there were people like me who have no background in how to lay pipes for water systems who said, why can't you go around the trees?
 And that's when it became crystal clear to me. The Water Bureau does not value these historic and cultural assets of the reservoirs in the same ways the community values them. That is the essence of the conflict. That is the essence of the history. And that is a really important thing for you guys to take in. So I really hope that you understand that and that...
 The stewardship as they see it, as the Water Bureau sees it, is not what any of us in the community would call good stewardship. Of these as we would see it. You can walk up to those walls, 10 feet from the photo they showed you of the beautiful staircase that they did repair and did nicely. And you can tap it with your finger like this and it crumbles away. It has exposed wrought iron, which is making the walls crack open deeper because the wrought iron takes on water and expands the walls and makes them crack open further. This is demolition by neglect. Right?
 And so until they value what we value, it's up to you guys to value it. So I'm here asking you to please value what the community values, value them as cultural assets, value them as something more than just utilities, value them as our history, our culture, and the important centerpiece, the reason the park was built. Thank you very much. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mayor and Council, for holding this meeting today.
 My name is Martha Mitchell. I'm recently retired principal of Clearwater West. I did some important work in the development of the master plan for Mount Tabor Park in the early aughts, looking at the impact of human uses on water quality runoff. As part of doing that work, I spent a lot of time in the park, and I'm also a neighbor, and I've been walking the park for 30 years.
 And what I've seen is a very large disparity of the standards of maintenance between the park and the Water Bureau. Also, I've seen a lot of resources go away over the years. If you recall, there used to be irrigation and mowing at Mount Tabor Park long ago, and restrooms that were open and maintained, and budgets have dwindled over the years. Yes.
 And what I've seen is that sort of a program of deferred maintenance in the Water Bureau infrastructure has really turned into a planned obsolescence. And it's really unfortunate.
 I think there are some solutions here. I think that we always have to think about where the money comes from to maintain the civilization that we all have here. And we do have money that we spend on some things and not others. We also have in the Bureau of Maintenance, which is part of BES...
 I was at one time the lead environmental person for that bureau. There are 38 crews there that all know how to do big infrastructure things. There are people who are experts in plumbing, in concrete, in anything you want to name. They're the people who take care of all our public infrastructure. We have a lot of very informed, well-trained people.
 in that bureau that we might be able to call upon with some extra training to do some of the work that we need to do. And I'm hoping that we can find the money to get it done. Thank you very much. Welcome. Hello. I'd like to thank you all. I'm back again.
 And I support the neighborhood association's appeal. Put your name in the record please. Robert Bernstein, homeowner, three blocks from Mount Tabor, 46 year resident of Portland. I get concerned when I hear 25 feet of trees and then I hear 81 trees. So I would like to see some sort of conditional review and some fact finding about this.
 I oftentimes find that mitigation is a joke and a hoax. You have birds that come through on the flyway. There's a big difference between a little sapling and an 80 or 100 foot tree. And saying that you're gonna plant the sapling to take the place of an 80 or 100 foot tree, that's like me saying, well, Dan Saltsman, I'm taking away your home. But I'm putting somebody unborn in charge of building you a new home. And it might be ready in 100 years.
 It's a joke, you know, so really look at the environmental impact. When I look out my upstairs window, I expect to see trees. I don't expect to see a meadow. The trees also act as a buffer for the sound for the concerts that are held up on Mount Tabor. They cleanse our air. They are not simply just something that grows on top of pipes. So if there's ways to save these trees, that's really important to me.
 As to the expense of the upkeep of Mount Tabor, I'd like the Commission to think about, the Council, to think about rescinding the hookup fees that were lowered for developers. They certainly caused a lot of harm, in my opinion, to the southeast area, and they should be paying more. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
 Okay. Next, please. Number 20, Mark Schlemmer. 21, Mary Eng. And 22, Catherine Kirkpatrick. And they'll be followed by 24, Charles Johnson. 25, Camille Day. And 26, Brad Yazolino. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Welcome. Mark Schlemmer. Just call me a taxpayer here in town. Father.
 And somebody who's been really concerned about governance in Portland for some time, I've came to this issue of the reservoirs later than many in this room who have not been thanked. And I'd like to put a shout out to Floyd Jones and Scott Fernandez and Friends of the Reservoir and many other people that have been involved for a long time.
 and uh... i came to this just last november i was at the meeting at uh... warner pacific college uh... i was very impressed with my fellow citizens who are seem very knowledgeable about this uh... whole everything about this water issue and mount tabor after that trying to learn more i communicated with commissioner fritz and fish by email imagine my astonishment when uh...
 One of the emails I got from Ms. Fritz stated that it was important to preserve the Mount Tabor Reservoir, perhaps to sell water to California or Arizona. No doubt to pay for cost overruns for some of your tanks that are leaking or I don't know what. But the Water Bureau seems to go over its estimates by a large percentage every time I hear about it.
 I don't know a more accurate way to say this, and I don't mean to offend anybody, but you seem bent on pissing away our money to add radon to our water. And I really object to that. I'd like you to show leadership and stand up to the EPA.
 for the families that elected you. Thank you. Thanks. Ms. Ng, welcome. Hi, my name is Mary Ng. I want to thank everyone who has spoken today. I've heard such eloquent testimony. I especially like the medical doctors. And I'm very honored to be in the same room as Steven Wax, who I watched every day of his FBI trial. I hope he is as tough on you guys as he was with the FBI. He was an attorney in the trial. He was not on trial. We should clear that up. Well, I don't know. He was on trial to me, and he's a winner.
 So I want to shout out to the balcony, all the wonderful imaginary citizens in our imaginary democracy, and then remind you guys that I used to sit around with an environmental law casebook and study about the history of the EPA. And if we have an ahistorical and unscientific understanding of what the EPA is and then use it to railroad the public in this situation, we're actually –
 Looking at the, to me, I see the EPA as an imperfect organism which is under development. Mary, we need you to go to the case. Please don't interrupt me, sir. I know. Just give me my two minutes. Okay, go ahead. Can I have my three that you stole? Go ahead. Okay. So I think a hard part for me is that as we have the dramatis personae, the same cast and crew who are responsible for your 75 million boondoggle that you're giving to that organization,
 gorgeous lady in the thin transparent shirt who hit on Ben Pickering in the lobby, which I am frightfully jealous of despite the turmoil in our relationship. And giving away that money to her for this boondoggle up in Washington Park and then trying to tell me that this Tabor thing is wonderful. I think all these people are very compelling and that the issues with radon and human health
 have yet to be proven. And when the EPA is as aware as we are in the very progressive Pacific Northwest, what the radon risks are for human health and cancer, I thank you very much for calling me missing and not Mary. And thank you for taking into account the disrespect in your demeanor previously to me. And I appreciate further respect. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Hello, thank you. My name is Catherine Kirkpatrick. I'm an allied health worker and a mother. And I am here to ask you to reject the application. Commissioner Fish asked us to discuss the actual merits of the dispute between the Water Bureau and the public, and I agree. That dispute is over whether there is actually any merit in even taking these reservoirs offline.
 Applicant has not met its burden and cannot meet its burden of proving under Section G1 that the historic character and avoidance of removal criteria are met because the reservoir's in-use status as the utilities that provide us with potable water was the defining trait and character specifically mentioned in the register nomination and listing. Okay.
 Furthermore, I think the HLC erred in saying, look, we don't have the authority to look at the applicant's contention that this is federally mandated. The applicant raised that issue and has the burden of proving it. I submit they cannot meet that burden because they haven't even met the basic federal public notification guidelines on notifying the public of the effect of this decommissioning on our radon exposure. This is my child's life at stake.
 I called a couple of national experts in nuclear chemistry and radioactive health, and I read the peer-reviewed journals that they sent me, and I've submitted them under separate cover. And what they told me was very alarming. And further, I've looked at the Water Bureau's evidence that they submitted about how this is mandated, and I see that the EPA clearly told the Oregon Health Authority that it can authorize
 allow a deferral. And so I am asking you to please use your power to not only deny this application but scrap your self-imposed rush deadline so that we can do this in a way that really protects my child and the rest of the public. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, next three.
 24, Charles Johnson. 25, Camille Day. And 26, Brad Yazalino. And they will be followed by 27, Dee White. And I believe Mark Bartlett already spoke. So number 29, Paul Cefanufuegos. And 30, Sandra Ganey. Afternoon. Good morning, commissioners convened as the Land Use Quasi-Judicial Tribunal. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. Good morning.
 And since we'll be talking about repair work, construction demolition changes that are under historical land review, we should paraphrase this with an appropriate tool word. Screw you. That is the message that the Water Bureau and the recently departed from his chair, Water Commissioner, Nick Fish, is sending.
 There's no way that anybody can say that they're being a public-minded public servant and bring this crappy BS appeal of the water bureau. You've got to stick to the criteria. Those words are not prohibited by the Oregon State Supreme Court, so they can go into this hearing, which will go in there. You need to stick to the approval criteria on this. Things that aren't relevant don't change the case, so talk about what's relevant.
 As was just brought forth to you, that this is a land use hearing and we're trying to determine if there's any good reason for this change. And there's not. And there is no good reason for the Water Bureau to be paid, extensively overpaid public workers coming up here and saying, we can't do it. And if you make us do it, we'll make it cost $8 million. That's how good of public servants we are.
 So, as Commissioner Fritz pointed out at the beginning of this hearing, there's only really one good and proper public interest decision for you to make, and that is to say, go away. We're going to leave the reservoirs alone until there is a real mandate from the feds, which will never come. So, do what is in the best interest of the citizens.
 Don't change anything at the reservoirs because there's no compelling public interest. There's no established legal reason. That is in the record, has been since Commissioner Saltzman and when Randy Leonard was on the city council. You don't need to be spending this money. And that's another atrocious thing that needs to be on the record is that we have –
 millions, tens of millions of dollars to run construction gear up through Washington Park and destroy things. But then, oh my gosh, we can't afford to deal with the conduit on the lighting fixtures at Mount Tabor Park. You all look absurd. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hello. My name is Camille Day. I'm a software engineer at Intel. I'm a resident of Portland, and I consider myself a citizen of Cascadia.
 Time after time, this council under Mayor Hale's leadership has acted as if Portland was your personal playground, pushing an agenda that the residents of Portland have opposed vocally and consistently. Backroom deals, closed balconies, and rushed decisions are not the symptoms of a healthy democracy. So here we are again, your supposed bullies, as I have read in the papers.
 ruining all your playground fun. The people are speaking. As an elected representative, you need to learn to listen. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. Thanks for the opportunity to speak. I'm Brad Yazolino. This is a real tragedy unfolding slowly for many years. I want to urge the City Council to uphold the Historic Landmarks Commission, and I want to recognize
 Thank you.
 It's going to look like that in the future when all this comes out. You know, all of you, that I've been shooting all this video. And the story will be told. And it's a long, complicated story. But basically...
 Uh, you are robbing us of our own water and indenturing Portland to years of expensive industrial increased chemicals added water. We used to have our sun, our nearest star, cleansing our pure, free rainwater from the Bull Run watershed. But now, thanks to, shall I call you villains? Perhaps. Perhaps.
 We will have dark-stored, over-chemicalized, degraded water until we build a new system, perhaps, to replace the fiasco that you have led us by the nose into. So don't destroy the historic reservoirs. Keep them. Pledge to us that the Water Bureau will have, and you, the City Council, will have to fund and preserve them at full fill levels, and they would be historic monuments to our once safe, simple, and exemplary drinking water system
 And they may be restored to that someday if we can possibly keep them from being literally shredded apart and utterly destroyed. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next. Next three are 27, Dee White, 29, Paul Cienfuegos, and 30, Sandra Ganey. And they'll be followed by 31, Joseph Mitchell, 32, Jody Lorimer, and 34, Laurel Christman. Okay, Ms. White, I think you're first.
 I'm Dee White. I live off of Foster. Rochester, New York changed their reservoir plans in 2010 after community opposition. Rochester's three open reservoirs were built in the late 1800s and are set in city parks. Rochester reservoirs are earthen, unlike our concrete reservoirs, which notably were built to last, as they have for over 100 years and as they are today.
 Here I will read part of an email from the head of the Water Department in Rochester that was sent to Friends of the Reservoirs in 2010. The city is in the process of implementing improvements to our three finished drinking water reservoirs, Cobbs Hill, Rush, and Highland. Both Highland and Cobbs Hill are located in public access parks within the densely populated neighborhoods of the city. Highland Reservoir is located in Highland Park, a park that is listed in National Register of Historic Places.
 The park was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted in 1892. The public is very sensitive to any changes in their open reservoirs because they are considered aesthetic resources.
 Thanks to sincere efforts by Mayor Bloomberg and Senator Schumer, the entire EPA L22 rule, including the open reservoir requirement, is now under revision. New York City and Rochester were granted a deferral until 2028. Not one thin dime will be spent between now and then on treating or covering their open reservoirs. Both cities achieved relief because they did not fast-track their compliance plan in the first place.
 Unlike the Portland Water Bureau, Mayor Hales, you had an opportunity to seek this kind of scheduled delay from the state of Oregon when you took office in 2013. But sadly, you never even made the request. This is a failure of leadership.
 I implore you, Mayor Hales, to seek a construction delay from Governor Brown and stop this fast-track processing of dismantling our open reservoirs at Mount Tabor. It's not too late to do this. Thank you. Thanks. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Paul Cianfuegos. I live a few blocks from the reservoir at Mount Tabor. The Historic Landmarks Commission public hearings yesterday
 We're the very first government body public hearings in Portland over the last few years on this topic that demonstrated a commitment to actually listen to we the people of this city. I attended two of the three public hearings. I attended the Warner Pacific meeting where the, what's the word?
 where the policy was on the agenda for discussion and at the point that the policy part of the agenda was finally reached, the two city council members who were present claimed they had to walk out. So I've been waiting now for three or four years for some kind of public policy conversation, ideally from you folks, the city council, where the public gets to act as if they're respected as the people that you represent
 And I lead workshops all over the United States on democracy and corporate rule. Here's the first paragraph of our state constitution in Oregon. I don't feel that the city council and certainly not the Water Bureau is meeting the Oregon state constitution's minimums. Natural rights inherent in people. We declare that all power is inherent in the people. All free governments are founded on their authority. Thank you.
 and instituted for their peace, safety, and happiness, and they have at all times a right to alter, reform, or abolish the government in such manner as they may think proper. That's the current first paragraph of the Oregon State Constitution. I witnessed the Historic Landmarks Commission attempting to vote no on the disconnect of the reservoirs.
 But I read their mandate on the website, and they're not allowed to vote no, but they would have voted no on the disconnect if that mandate of theirs had allowed it. So I still believe that you as a city council have never properly allowed the public in this city to represent their positions on whether the LT2 is even something that has to be met in the way that you're insisting it has to be met.
 And I suspect that there is 80% of the public in this city agrees with me. And because you've never allowed a proper public process, that's why there's so much anger in this city today. Next folks, please. Was there a number 30, Sandra Ganey? Okay. Then we'll go with 31, Joseph J. Mitchell. 32, Jody Lorimer. And 34, Laurel Chrisman. Okay, what about 35, Joe Myers? Okay.
 36, Luke Dulkas. Laura Smith, 37. 38, Susan Tompkins. Courtney Scott, 39. 40, Floyd Jones. Go ahead. Welcome. Yes. My name is Laurel Christman. I'm a resident of the Mount Tabor area. I visit the park frequently. And I've come here to speak from a very heartful place. I'm at a loss to
 speak from any other place because it's all been said, all the science is in, all the specifics are in and there's nothing else to do but speak from the heart which I can barely do now. But when we're speaking of beauty, the beauty of our park, Mount Tabor Park, Washington Park for that matter, that's a somewhat separate issue. We're talking about the heart
 And I'm just here to implore you to go to your hearts, to go to your conscience, to go to that place where maybe you will go in your quiet times. I hope you have some quiet times. Because this is really a bigger issue than Mount Tabor Park or Washington Park. It's a global issue, and it's a global issue about power.
 And when you wonder why sometimes people speak disrespectfully, why they yell, why you don't get your peace like you would have it in these chambers, it's because that's sometimes what people do when there's misuse of power and they feel disempowered. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 My name is Luke Dulkas. Good afternoon. Thanks for letting me speak. I've been a resident of Portland for 20 years. I own a small business in town. I have been enjoying Mount Tabor for 20 years, and I have two small children who are just starting to enjoy it as well. I'm Greek, so democracy is kind of a big deal for me. Okay.
 I just want to say that if the Water Bureau does not step up and take responsibility for the project that they started, the reservoirs will fall into disrepair. They will quickly become the eyesore of Portland as opposed to the gem that we're all used to. The Water Bureau needs to take responsibility for this project. Please do not allow them to get out of this decision that was made by the Historic Landmarks Commission. The history books of Portland are being written right now, today, right here in this room,
 What do we want them to say? What do we want them to say about us? And what do we want them to say about you, our leaders? Do we want our children and our children's children to read our history books and smile? Do we want them to say, I'm proud of our history? Do we want them to say that they are thankful that our elected leaders fought to preserve our history? Do we want them to say that they are proud and want to emulate their past leaders' courage and foresight?
 Or do we want them to shrug their heads, sigh, and say that they wish our parents, grandparents, and leaders fought to maintain our history? Again, if the Water Bureau does not step up and take responsibility for the project that they started, the reservoir will fall into disrepair. It will quickly become the eyesore of Portland as opposed to the gem that we are all used to. The Water Bureau needs to take responsibility for this project. Please, thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Floyd Jones, representing Friends of the Reservoirs. As most of you know, we've been working on reservoir and all water system issues for over 14 years now. We're proud to say that we, through our extensive efforts in 2004, which
 model the efforts of Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association on this issue, were successful in winning the 2004 reservoir panel. And the way we were able to do that is we did invest a significant amount of time, but we were able to have dialogue back and forth on a weekly basis.
 And it was difficult because at each step, the Water Bureau would submit misleading information. And I've heard it again today on the water level issue, on the cost issue. Those were the same tactics that were used at the reservoir panel. But when you're able to dig into documents and, you know, sit together and analyze information, reasonable people come to the same conclusion. That's why the majority of...
 the reservoir panel supported us. And for the record, there have been a lot of false statements made to the media. There is no mandate to eliminate open reservoirs. There absolutely is no mandate to do that. I submitted 10 pages of comments addressing all of the land use issues, including ownership, water level, all of the significant issues.
 I'm not sure that I have time at this moment to cover those. So regarding the costs, when the Water Bureau wants to expend money, even though it's not in the budget, that's really not an issue. And we can look to Washington Park in 2006. There was nothing in the budget to engage in infrastructure upgrades and aesthetic upgrades at that park. But within a month or two, that money was gone.
 in the budget, and they were putting in $100,000 new wrought iron fencing, replacing the cyclone fencing. They spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on the grand open staircase, new sidewalks. We didn't support having to do that on a rush schedule, and we, of course, support maintaining and preserving our historic open reservoirs. So there's no doubt in my mind that there's money available to take care of the historic structure there.
 items that have been supported by the Landmark Commission. So obviously we don't support decommissioning the reservoirs, but we do support the position of the Historic Landmark Commission. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Number 41, Catherine Cherry Holenstein. 42, Janet Marclay Hayes. And 44, Jesse Smonberg.
 Come on up. And then we'll be followed by 45, Jane Linegar, 46, Sarah Long, and 48, Michael Conley. Welcome. Go ahead. Good afternoon. I'm Catherine Cherry Lambert-Holstein, and I do not need two minutes today, and this city council does not need to do this. The EPA is revisiting their ruling, and they'll give a report next year. So my question is, why the rush? Okay.
 But I find that the City Council is in a very big hurry to demolish and destroy, whether it's very livable homes and make more homeless people, or destroy our reservoirs, the best water system in this country. Water is life. Do not destroy our reservoirs. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Janet Markley-Hayes.
 And I just want to say, you people are supposed to be representing us. Please do that. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you, guys. My name is Jesse Sponberg, or as you guys nicely refer to me in the news all week as a bully. Let me explain something to you. You know, when I came here today,
 I was so torn. First, I wanted to, you know, talk about your campaign donations and people like Joe Glick are going and actually writing these things. And then you said something today. You said you were the fourth person in charge of the Water Bureau since Commissioner Saltzman. I would challenge that none of you.
 have ever been in charge of the Water Bureau and that this whole time it's been developers that are in charge of this Water Bureau. The same developers that are keeping you all elected because if you don't do what they say, you won't get that money for your fancy television commercials. You're only going to be here for one more year, buddy. Slow it the hell down. I don't even recognize the city that you took over three years ago. You met at Mark Weiner's house with the Uber people and you brought Airbnbs
 in here. Division Street doesn't even look like it used to look where I could still afford to live there. And you guys are jumping at the bit to get that money, to get more contracts, to build more stuff. So more consultants and more contractors. Who do you work for? Like seriously, who do you work for? Us? That picture right above you. That's a picture of Mount Tabor. Are you guys going to go up there and paint condominiums on it?
 Just like the one on Division, the old reservoir that was allowed to get into disrepair until there was no other choice. But let's put condos up there. Look at Southeast Division Street. You think that we believe that there's any sincerity going on in here? These people behind me all took time off of work.
 I took time off of work. These people have been taking time off of work to go to historic land use commissions and neighborhood meetings and Warner Pacific only to get walked out on. And then Dan Saltzman walks out in the middle of four people's testimony. He comes back. You walk out in the middle of four people's testimony. How insincere is this circus going on? Now for one minute...
 Do I think that any of you guys, maybe Commissioner Frisch about 50%, but the rest of you are just in, you got people in your pockets, putting money in your pockets. And I just want to say this is a travesty. And if that makes me a bully, well, that's what happens when somebody's gone 15 years without being listened to. Thank you for your time. The next three are Jane Leninger.
 40 40 45 46 Sarah long and 48 Michael Conley Let's go with 49 Carol Scholl and then 51 the last person who was able to sign up was Nan Weigar Wigmore, thank you. Come on up if you still want to maybe Anyone else that wants to speak any of those names I called please come on anyone else whose name was called come on up Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I
 My name is Carol Scholl. I'm a taxpayer and a homeowner and a proud resident of Montevilla, the east side of Mount Tabor. You know, every week I ride my bike over Mount Tabor. And these days, I look at the trees. They've got little tags on them. They're going to be chopped down for the disconnection project. And it just breaks my heart.
 And then every week also, I walk the stairs along with, you know, hundreds of other residents and tourists, and I sit at the top of Mount Tabor under those giant trees. And what do I look at? I look down at the beautiful reservoirs, and I'm so proud to live in Portland when I see that sight.
 And so I'm here. I also took most of the day off work to be here in praise of my park and to urge you all to uphold the Historic Landmark Commission ruling and deny the Water Bureau's appeal.
 And trees count, and views bring tourists, and tourists bring money to our great city. Again, thank you all for your work. One part of the Historic Landmark Commission's ruling was to create some educational plaques. Now, I'm an educator, and wouldn't it be great if our kids in the future could see your names up there on those plaques as being the champions of Mount Tabor?
 And, you know, Mount Tabor's history is just fantastic. And I've learned so much in this process. Thank you, Amanda Fritz, for bringing it up, helping us all as members of the public get to know what's going on. But thank you all for your work. Again, let's preserve Mount Tabor. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. I'm Nan Wigmore, and I would like to – I'm 78 years old today, and I don't want applause. But –
 68 of those years have been spent within 10 blocks of Mount Tabor Park. My husband and I built a house we purchased five blocks from this park because it was so close to the park. We could raise our children and come here every day. So my kids played in the huge pool that was here, sometime gone. I skidded out.
 The seed of my genes coming down the old volcano caldera. I found courage, and so did my grandchildren. In the playground, we found strength. And there are things that I talk about that I've heard here that sound sentimental. Please, sir. Please, ma'am. We do not...
 come here because of sentimental value. We come here for the future, as you must have done when you started out with your careers. And I've heard you say, Amanda, that you took a vow. And I appreciate that you cared, but something along the way has caused something to change. And I don't know what it is exactly, but I know that we deserve better now. We deserve better.
 at least what our parents saw as a wonderful place to raise their children. So I learned to play tennis on the tennis court here, the first sport I learned. And I didn't finish writing my notes.
 So I don't know if I have more to say. I don't know how much time I have. But I could talk a while, you know. We appreciate you very much being here. I'm going to suspend the rules. Yeah, we're happy to give you some more time. Excuse my enthusiasm. So for...
 For the history of Mount Tabor, I used to take people on tours of Mount Tabor, the parks. I would explain to them what I knew, which wasn't a lot. I know that I took romantic drives and walks with my ex-husband before we were married. I remember that...
 Great grandparents came here when they were older. Relatives came from a long way across the country for picnics at the top of the mountain where we can no longer drive. Perhaps the city will someday, I hope, think about that kind of thing. How do you get those who have some disability or age to the top of the park again? That would be a good way to spend one of those dollars.
 I remember a good friend who was about my age tell me that she came up here on her honeymoon from San Francisco when she was about 20 years old and she's gone now. But that was the kind of reputation Portland had at the time. I think I've said enough. But I want to thank you very much for being here and listening this one time because somehow I feel you're listening to us.
 And the people have some wisdom here. Please listen. Thank you. Let's take a piece of spending away. Sir, that's a very hard act to follow, but you're welcome to try. Well, if I last another 30 years, maybe you'll let him clap for me, too. I think so. Please just put your name in the record, and then go ahead. My name is Michael Conley, and citizen, taxpayer, ratepayer, I guess in that order. I want to excuse myself.
 As to be excused, I had to step out on some personal business, so some of what I'm going to say may have been said already. But the main thing I want to say is that I believe that the whole idea of demolishing these reservoirs is a wanton act. And it reminds me of the way people used to act towards nature when European settlers first came out here and they just...
 Oh, let's just, you know, run roughshod over it. Let's do what we want. I mean, they didn't even think of it like that. They didn't have that awareness. Same thing with pollution and everything else. I know that's a little bit off the topic, but to me, it's just a wasteful act. It doesn't really fit with the Portland ethos that we're famous for around the country, which
 And I believe it's very ironic that this whole thing was set in motion by an EPA ruling, which normally, yeah, go EPA. But you know what? In this case, they were wrong. We didn't fight it. So now we're having this conversation about destroying these wonderful reservoirs and possibly impacting the quality of our drinking water for generations to come. As a ratepayer, I also want to...
 Note that I was here during much of the discussion, but I missed the last hour. But I took some notes during the talk about the gatehouse restoration. Well, that came in at four times over budget, around $200,000. That's four times the estimate. So that makes me wonder, what about the whole $8 million? Is that going to be $32 million? Is it going to be $40 million? Because...
 As we all know, these kind of cost overruns are common in public projects.
 I think that when Commissioner Fish said that he was defending the Water Bureau and he said there's a fundamental disagreement among citizens, and I don't think that's correct because, like I said, I was out, but I haven't seen a whole bunch of just regular citizens come up and say, yeah, destroy the things like truckloads. You know, like all the truckloads of material and those huge contracts are,
 I don't think anybody's really in favor of that. We don't want to pay for it. We don't want to live through it. And also we're going to be – it's very wasteful to our legacy of our water infrastructure. Thank you very much. Thanks. Okay. I think that we've covered the list of folks that wanted to speak. That's all who signed up. There was a request to speak from someone who didn't get to sign up. Okay. Ma'am, if you're still here. Sure. Come on up, please.
 Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Joy Ellis. I'm a Portland native. I'm an attorney. I have lived a block away from Mount Tabor Park for the last 19 years as a homeowner, and I'm also coming to you as a mother. And this issue, I've never had to testify before you before. I've never felt so moved to need to testify in front of you. So I'm sorry if my voice shakes, but this issue is near and dear to me.
 I was disturbed by the decision to disconnect the reservoirs and to take them offline, but I was far more disturbed when I attended a tour of the project last summer and realized quickly that the Water Bureau had little interest in maintaining the reservoirs whatsoever. I asked a question about what would happen to the reservoirs once the disconnect project was complete and was told by a GLIB Water Bureau representative that it was no longer their problem.
 And this choice of words seemed odd to me, since the reservoirs were never a problem to anyone, near as I could tell. And calling them that was revealing indeed. When did this historic treasure, this incredible public works project, this amazing story about our city's drinking water, become a problem and not a civic asset that set this grand park apart from all the others?
 I support the conditions set on the Water Bureau's permit. The mandate for repair and maintenance to these historic structures is basic common sense. If the Water Bureau can't live with those conditions, then the Bureau should not be permitted to proceed with the reservoir disconnection project and wreck our park.
 We need more restorative beauty in this city. It compensates for the dense urban development that we all tolerate. Those reservoirs offer that respite from the modern world and from our density. They give us all a place to go and walk off a stressful day, exercise the dog, take the kids for a safe trike ride away from car traffic. And the expanse of those deep pools allow us all to take a deep breath and realize how lucky we are to live in this wonderful city.
 In addition to beauty, however, we need more accountability. Allowing the water bureau to simply walk away from repairing and maintaining the historic reservoir district in the manner it should have done all along as a steward of the city's resources would be a mistake. And I see it as an irreversible one that sends the wrong message at a time when the city of Portland and the city council specifically needs to be sending a very different message.
 I therefore call on you, my City Council, to let the Unanimous Historic Landmarks Commission decision stand, allowing Mount Tabor Park to remain intact and inviting for generations to come. Thanks. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. I came up with joy to be in solidarity. I hate to be the last person to speak here today. I'm Georgia Lampros Obradovich. Grew up here in Portland. Love Washington Park.
 Grew up there. Grew up in Mount Tabor the second half of my life. I love this city. I love the parks. I think they're treasures. People come here to see Mount Tabor Park. I take
 All my husband's people that come from out of town up to our reservoirs to see the beauty of Portland. So I think it should be protected. I need you to invest in it. And places like this must be preserved for our children. You can make this happen. Don't stand for anything less than keeping our Mount Tabor Park alive with their historic reservoirs and they need to be kept intact.
 even if they no longer serve to provide us with water. If that should happen, they should be maintained for their pure beauty and peacefulness. We moved here again to Mount Tabor 23 years ago, and we raised two kids, three dogs in this wonderful neighborhood. We pay $11,000 a year in property tax on Salmon Street. I go up there every day, and I don't care about that because I love my park.
 I think we would gladly pay more if you could keep it the way it is, maintain it. Don't pass the buck. Make somebody stand for keeping it the way it is. Either the city or the Water Bureau, it needs to remain the way it is. Don't chop the trees down, please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you.
 Okay. I want to give the parties an opportunity for rebuttal because we have that in the schedule here, and then we can decide whether we want to keep the record open and proceed that way or not. But let's give the Water Bureau first. Sorry, am I messing up?
 Well, typically rebuttal follows the close of the record. Okay, so we're going to decide whether we're going to close the record. Sorry. Okay. If you want to do rebuttal and then more rebuttal later. Let's hear from the council about whether you want to keep the record open and whether there's a request from either the Water Bureau or the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association to keep the record open for some time, as we'll take that into consideration. Your call on whether you'd like that or not.
 Mr. Merritt, I will take that as an invitation to address you, and I will be brief here. I do think new information has been submitted today, quite a bit of it.
 by the Water Bureau. More importantly, I sense that there remain questions in the minds of the commissioners. And really when you make that decision, there shouldn't be any questions left. Some of the questions I think even are factual at this point. That really lends itself to an open record period and so we would request one.
 How much would you like? I would recommend a couple weeks. Yeah, I think the two weeks was fine. And so if we were to do that, counsel, we could then set a hearing where –
 we would reconvene for the purposes of rebuttal since the record would then close, and we'd have a chance to ask the parties questions that may have come up, and then we would either deliberate or schedule another time to deliberate. Does that make sense? Yeah, absolutely it does, and I want to stress I think all of us ought to be at your disposal in making this decision and give you whatever availability you think that you need. As we said, there's a big record here. It's gotten a little bit bigger.
 We want to be responsive. Okay. Mayor, I might just informally suggest that, that we keep the record open for a couple weeks. We've done that in some recent hearings. And then set a time for rebuttal. And then at rebuttal, we can decide whether we want to deliberate or take additional time, which is also within our purview. Yeah, I would like that. I've got some questions from the hearing that I'd like to probe into. Teresa, do you object to that? What's that? No.
 There's been a request to keep the record open and then we'd reconvene. Actually, we would like to have a couple minutes to talk amongst ourselves. Okay. It would be, I think, unusual for an applicant to not agree to that. I don't think that we disagree with that, but I do know that we want to have a couple minutes. Are we required to leave the record open if there's been new evidence? Just a couple minutes, please.
 I'll give you a minute to confer. Go confer. But we've got a request from one of the parties and an interest on the council in keeping the record open. So I'd have to hear an awfully good argument for why we shouldn't do that. I just want to know from the city attorney. Mr. Mayor, I would offer to fill the interim with a minute's worth of remarks, my own remarks about the open record, about how I view the open record period. Since they're conferring, we ought to have a stand-up comedy maybe?
 I'm sorry. You'd actually have to go to my son for that. I actually could not do that. I'm sorry. I was asked a question by Commissioner Fritz on that topic, so I'd like to at least jump in here. This is not the initial evidentiary hearing that was held before the Historic Landmarks Commission, so you're under no obligation to grant it. It's at your discretion whether you wish to grant some more time for people to respond to the information that's been submitted today. Thank you. And then I have a follow-up question here.
 Are there restrictions on the abilities of the parties and or members of the council to talk amongst ourselves to try to get to an agreed upon solution? Yes.
 You all are still under the ex parte rules set by our code and state law, which provides that you are not supposed to be talking about this with interested parties in the interim. That doesn't preclude the parties from having those discussions, but the members of the adjudicatory body are not supposed to be doing that. I think also I know where my colleague may be going on that, and what I would say in the interim is that...
 Because a number of people were not able to testify today, a number of people were called and didn't testify, because we've had a claim that there was some new information, I still think it's the better practice to keep the record open so that everyone has a chance to be heard, and then to reconvene for rebuttal so council has a chance to make sure. And at that point, I think we can consider alternative ways of resolving the dispute. But there's a couple of issues for me have to be sharpened before I would urge that we come back
 I think you've suggested, Mayor, two weeks. That makes sense. Have the rebuttal testimony, and then we as a council can decide next steps. All right. And I have some specific questions and direction I'd like to give to the parties in the meantime, which they are free to confer between themselves even while we're not free to have those conversations. So may I take a couple minutes to tell – we'd like to just say where we think we are at the hearing. Thank you.
 And we're fine with having the record open. That sounds great. It looks like there would be some good opportunities to work some things out. But I wanted to point out that, you know, about condition B, that, as we mentioned, we've,
 got a proposal that we designed to preserve options for whatever future uses the city might select. I have to jump in, Mayor. This sounds like rebuttal. Yeah. Let's not. You don't want to hear. With all due respect, we want to give you a full opportunity to do that on both sides, but that's why we're suggesting a two-week rebuttal.
 essentially set over, and then we could come back and hear everyone's arguments. I know you have something important to tell us, but it's quarter to six, and I think it would all be better to have the record open for two weeks. So while you're both here, I have some issues that I'd like to hear from you on at rebuttal. One, we've heard new information about the cycle time involved in draining, cleaning, and refilling the reservoirs.
 i'd like more precise information about what that will be in real or what that is likely to be in reality and given that cycle time an estimate of how many days each year the reservoirs would actually be full or near full given the fact that it sounds like it's going to take a hundred days to
 nearly 100 days to drain and refill them, and the year is only 365 days long. I'm pretty concerned about that, so I want to hear more about what that will be in reality, given that the condition is talking about that the reservoirs must continue to hold water within the normal historic operating range. It sounds like it...
 given what we heard from the Water Bureau today, and I may not have understood the mechanics as they were described, but it may not be physically possible for the Water Bureau to meet that condition, given what you testified to today. So I need to hear more about that. I believe that Condition E is,
 as better explained by the members of the Landmarks Commission that were here, was intended to mean, was not to be slavishly interpreted, but was to be interpreted in a focused way towards restoration and maintenance projects, and that the removal of non-historic elements, such as light fixtures and conduits that are
 Attached to or involved with those maintenance and restoration projects or what they were intending when they referenced Non-historic elements not all of the non-historic elements mentioned in the Mount Tabor reservoirs historic structures report So I would urge the parties to confer in general because it's always good in a land use case and people can go off and settle things it doesn't always happen, but it's nice and
 But I would urge those two parties to confer anyway, but I would particularly like them to confer about the question of realistically what restoration and maintenance projects are we talking about
 And is there a list that at least there might be general agreement on between the Water Bureau and the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association? Those seem to me a couple of productive areas from what I've heard in this hearing that might help us get to a better decision or at least understand that one might not be possible. Mayor, can I build on that for a second?
 In addition to that request, we heard some testimony that the 2009 report may also have some alternative approaches that are discussed. So if there's a fork in the road and an alternative approach, it would be good, if you are conferring, to have that conversation as well so we don't come back and find out that we've identified what structures are covered and what aren't, but we're not in agreement as to what's going on.
 level of preservation. So if there is an alternative approach, I would ask you to have that as part of the dialogue. In addition, there was some, I think the record, there's some question in my mind about what SHPO did or didn't do and what, to the extent they determined there was no adverse impact, what they were referring to. This is a, and I understand from the
 prior testimony that we have the record in front of us. What I would say is if there's something either of you would like us to specifically focus on and you want to submit the letter or the history and a highlighted thing, that's very helpful to us when we have a substantial record because then we know exactly what you're talking about and what you think is important. So thank you. Other requests? Yes.
 So I've heard from two of my colleagues some interest in doing at least some of the projects in the Historic Structures Report from 2009. So I'm going to indicate my support for that approach. And so I encourage the Water Bureau to look at these tables from page 9 to 16 in the report to figure out which ones can be done. And then the question of how to pay for it is a different question.
 So that's the council's responsibility. Will somebody testify that we could start doing it tomorrow? Actually, it would have to be in a capital improvement plan, which would have to be figured out into the rates. So the earliest it could start would probably be next year. So I do have some...
 concerns and a question about realistically how quickly could those be done without raising the rates 10% or whatever it might be. I think that's certainly something that the current commissioner in charge of the Water Bureau and the mayor have been very reluctant to raise overall sewer and water rates over 5%.
 for the past two years. So the timeline for the number of projects that we think are appropriate, and in looking through this, it looks to me like almost all of them are basic maintenance and repair projects
 with associated occasionally removing stuff i'd like to know from the water bureau in an ideal world factoring in that rate payers are going to have to pay for this what would that what would that condition look like specifying which projects to do and also specifying perhaps a different timeline because it does even though 2019 sounds like a long time away it really is just around the corner in terms of budgeting and getting things done and here um
 I also just want to acknowledge Tom Kohler spoke earlier. I think he's probably gone. He talked about the civic rituals, these civic exercises where we come together and we have these debates, these discussions. This week we also had the Grant High School Constitution Team come to council.
 and a group of young people that won the national championship. It's the, I think, second or third time in five years they've done so as the best in the country in grappling with big questions under the Constitution that don't have a ready answer. I would like to just echo the spirit of what Tom said, Mayor, which is this has been a long afternoon and a very passionate debate. But I think it was in the great tradition of the way Portland debates these issues. And I deeply appreciate that. People took time and came out and shared their views.
 And I think they've, I think frankly the record is going to give us a basis for making a more informed decision on this than we would have otherwise. So I want to just acknowledge that. I agree. Thank you. Excuse me. In terms of the way forward, I'm not sure that it's realistic to be able to expect the parties to be able to both get the information that we've asked and meet together and come to some agreement in two weeks.
 So what you had previously suggested was to come back for the closure of the record, the rebuttal and such. Commissioner Fish, you engaged some consultants at the beginning of this process to do some mediation facilitation, which that process seemed to go very well. It might be something that we would consider after the two weeks to see if we could quickly get the two parties together, since you and I can't be involved in it, to have a third-party mediator might be helpful. Can we do that? I think that's a good question.
 The city attorney is looking a little bit nervous. No? She just does that naturally. That's her job. Whenever we talk, we pay her to be nervous. Just in terms of scheduling, just to make sure you're aware, we were aware that it would be possible that the record would be held open until June 11th, and we've identified a time for council to come back for rebuttal and deliberations on June 25th at 2 p.m.
 too. If there's a way to make that work, that's great. If there's not, we'll find a different time. I would urge us to hold that date, the 25th. I like that. That gives a prescribed time for the record, for the people to put additional information in the record, and it provides about a month for the process that you've contemplated, Commissioner. Except there isn't a council session to...
 Hear the rebuttals. No, that's what will be on the 25th. On the 25th. That was when it was originally, we were going to, the proposal was to come back on the 25th for rebuttal. So then what happens between the 11th and the 25th? Well, one, the record's been completed. And the two appellants will have a chance to review anything that's come in in writing from people that either signed up. So at that point they could perhaps get together. And get a chance or otherwise. No, they could, let me just make sure I understand the question. I think it's a good one.
 I believe there's nothing that prevents the parties voluntarily from beginning that process now. The only reason we're proposing additional time following the closing of the record is so the parties can read the record and prepare their rebuttal. But it contemplates what I think you were getting at, which is almost a month for the parties to have those potentially mediated discussions. Right, and we might be able to help with that mediation procurement. I think we can help with it as long as we're not a party to it, and you and I could meet to confer on that. Yeah, great. Thank you. Thank you.
 So unless there's further counsel deliberations or anything that the two of you feel like you have to throw into the mix, I'm going to say that we're going to hold the record open. We're going to close the public hearing for purposes of verbal testimony. We're going to hold the record open for written submittals from anyone who'd like to, whether they attended today's hearing or not.
 and that will close June 11th. June 11th at 5 p.m., and the council clerk has handouts that show where those may be submitted.
 Okay. And then we will return to this item at 2 p.m. on the 25th for purposes of council discussion and for rebuttal by both appellants. Yes, and it'd probably be good to let people know it is at least possible that council would reach a tentative decision at that time. It is quite possible that
 the council will make a tentative decision that day. And as we always do in a land use case, we make a tentative decision, and then it comes back with legal findings later. So, Carla, that 2 o'clock time certain on the 25th works for you?
 Yes, that was an open date. What day is that? That is a Thursday. Thursday, the 25th. Thank you. Does that work? And just a note to the community members, to repeat, Commissioner Fish and I are not allowed to talk with anybody directly, so our staff will be in contact to figure out about the mediation, should it be desired. Okay, so this item is continued on that schedule, and we're adjourned for this week. Thank you all very much.
 Okie dokie. Well, you know, we did, but now we know we didn't have to. Yeah. That's much worse than that.
 I didn't. Me too. I was expecting it to be like this. This is a really great program. Thank you. And they made it really clear. They expected it to be. Yeah, thank you. Steve. Nice job. Thank you. I'll be... I promise. So I'll check with him. Yeah. What are you doing? Why are you having fun without me? Well, we actually need some money. We're bonding. There's no better place to bond than Turbo 6. Oh, right. All right. All right.
 I think you and I have all day to work right? Yeah. Oh, next week. Have you figured out yet when you're free for dinner next Thursday? Oh my gosh! Nice to see you! I didn't think you'd have to be here all day. I asked to see you whether I could. What time is it? It's at 7. Yeah, I'll let you know first thing in the morning. Okay. Thanks very much. Okay.
 Thank you.