Ready to go, Sue? Good morning. This is the May 30th, Wednesday a.m. session of the Portland City Council. Sue, please call the roll. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest or trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. First up is communications. Sue, if you could read the first individual's name, please. Request of David Keith Davis to address counsel regarding city-sponsored political terrorism. And that's item 531. So I wanted to address you guys about...
 the war on cop watchers and how Portland's in a constitutional crisis. And you guys don't seem to, uh, respect the constitution. And I'm, uh, more pointing out Nick fish and Ted Wheeler specifically. And Ted Wheeler, don't interrupt me this time when I'm talking. Okay. Cause this is my time, not yours. And you too, Nick fish, there's rules to this, uh, thing, just like the ones he read off. Okay. Now, uh, Jeff black, uh,
 The filmmaker is working on the murder of Quanis Hayes. He had talked about the war on cop watchers last week at the John Ellefritz hearing press conference outside. And he was talking about how that's a violation of the DOJ settlement too. And especially if some of us might have some mental illnesses.
 which there are certain people, I'm not going to name names, but there are people that do have mental illnesses that are cop watchers. And so you guys, with your unconstitutional war on cop watchers, are guilty of retaliation, ADA violations, civil rights violations, conspiracy to deny civil rights, which is a felony.
 And this is all going to be brought to federal court here pretty soon. Because you want to know what? We're getting a team of lawyers on our side. Your little days are numbered. Okay? The menacing, abusive, unconstitutional behavior at City Hall and by the Portland police needs to end. We should be able to at least film the police without dealing with all these...
 Various things from illegal arrest to getting stabbed like Eli got stabbed. And they didn't find any charges. Then there's John Hughes here who's, you know, he's in the paper, K2, all over. Man indicted on new murder charges and gun charges. That's Pete Simpson's relative who lived at his mom's house up until recently. And he choked Robbie Estabrooks.
 when she went to film outside of Pete Simpson's mom's house and also sawed his phone in half, the judge and the DA dropped the charges, and then they gave Eli a quarter of a million dollar bail for filming the police. So you guys are letting people that actually murder members of the community live
 choke women, attack cop watchers, smash their phones, smash their cameras. My camera was destroyed by an out-of-town mayor. The DA didn't find anything about that. Ted Wheeler, you said I threatened your daughter and your wife when I organized a protest outside of your house. That is...
 constitutionally protected and that is not a threat. And I didn't even know you had a daughter. But if I did know you have a daughter, I still would have a protest outside of your house. Thank you. That's not what I was referring to. Next individual, please. Next individual, please.
 Item 532, request of Jim Braley to address counsel regarding waiver of remonstrance. Excuse me, sir. You're going to have to be quiet. This is somebody else's time. If you cannot be quiet, you're going to have to leave. Did you hear what I said? No. If you cannot be quiet. You should give me some points. One moment, sir. I'm just asking for the own. Sorry, Jim. Go ahead, sir. Sorry.
 My name is Jim Brawley, and I live in the West Portland Park neighborhood. I recently discovered there's a street waiver. I've got to get my camera. I'm not leaving this behind.
 I recently discovered there's a street waiver on the house that my wife and I bought in 2005. I'm learning about this 13 years later because our neighborhood is involved in a possible local improvement district to pave streets. The estimate is that each home would have to pay about $45,000.
 Nobody was aware of this when they bought their home. Nobody in our neighborhood can afford to pay it outright, and if you finance it over 20 years, it's about $70,000, and that becomes a lien on your house. The street waiver is a city document that was signed only by our builder, Joe Bischalt, and all six of his houses on Vicuna and Coronado have waivers. The city allowed him to build without improving the road. Instead, with the waiver, the city obligated future homebuyers to pay
 If an LID is formed. Just a few blocks from us, there are other relatively new homes where the developer did put in paved streets with curbs and sidewalks. Apparently, the city required that builder to do the work as part of the project. This feels unfair and inequitable. But there's a bigger problem. The street waiver was never disclosed to us. Not by the builder, not by First American Title. No.
 not by Hassan Realty, and our signatures are not on the waiver. How could they be? It was recorded by the city months before we bought the house, and there's not even a place on the form for us to sign it. Everyone knows that for a contract to be legal, it needs to be signed by both sides. There's a state law, ORS 41.580, that addresses this.
 From what I've learned, the only way you might discover a street waiver is if you have a knowledgeable real estate agent. It's not obvious. When I went looking, Bureau of Development Services had no record of the waiver on our house because it was on file with Portland Bureau of Transportation. A lack of transparency generally means they don't want you to know what's going on. Donald Trump doesn't disclose his tax returns. Portland Public Schools doesn't disclose there's lead in drinking water.
 In my opinion, the street waiver process is kind of a fraud, and the city should quit using it unless you require that the waiver be disclosed to homebuyers and it has their signature. Beyond that, Portland should require all of the developers to put in paved streets and
 Evidence that the city doesn't do this is everywhere. Most neighborhoods have decent streets, but many others have gravel roads full of potholes. I'm not from Portland originally, so how this happens here is puzzling to me. It's also a big disappointment, and it makes me cynical about how Portland's city government works. Thank you for letting me speak on this issue. Mr. Braley, can I just ask you a quick question? Yes. You said in your testimony that it had been recorded, right?
 The street waiver is a one-page document. Where had it been recorded? Where had it been recorded? Right. In Multnomah County, Oregon, by C. Swick, Deputy Clerk. Okay. So the only reason I ask is having purchased and sold a house where I had to sign, like, a phone book set of documents of disclosures and all kinds of things. Okay.
 You know, I think the question you raise about notice to a subsequent buyer is a good question. And if what you're telling us is that it's recorded but a buyer with reasonable diligence cannot discover that,
 I think that's something the council will be interested in. This is not a game of gotcha, and, in fact, the person who manages our remonstrance program is probably one of the finest public servants that we deal with on a regular basis. But if what you're saying is there's some flaw in the way these things are recorded so that a buyer doesn't get adequate notice, I think that's something we'd like to know more about. So did you bring some materials for the council? I have the street waiver itself, and, again,
 Can I make a suggestion? If you could make copies of your documents and just give them to the clerk, then I think we can follow up on it. Okay. I'll just mention that in our title documents through First American Title, there was no disclosure of this document.
 And that may mean, I don't want to, I'm not playing your lawyer here, but that may mean you have a claim against your title company. You may have a claim, which, by the way, title companies get sued from time to time for these very reasons. You may have a claim against your realtor. The question is, what did you have a legal right to know?
 Things like easements on properties get disclosed. All kinds of things get disclosed. And if this wasn't disclosed and might have impacted your decision to buy the property, that's a serious issue. It absolutely would because you would probably try to negotiate a lower price on the house. Exactly.
 If you knew that. So could you just make, you know, my office is down here. We'd be happy to Xerox it for free. And if you could just then give it to the council clerk so we can follow up. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. It's a very persuasive and common sense argument. Thank you for that. Next individual, please. Item 533, request of Russell Sr. to address council regarding public telecommunications utility. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Russell Senior. I'm the president of a volunteer-based nonprofit called the Personal Telco Project. We are known in Portland for building and managing free-to-the-end-user public access Wi-Fi networks. In addition to building networks, we advocate for an end to the monopoly power that incumbent telecommunication companies currently hold.
 I'm also active with Municipal Broadband PDX. It has a Facebook group of about 3,000 people and has reached out to build political support for this long overdue idea. We have support from Multnomah County Democrats, some community and labor groups, and many in the small business community and the general public. I'm here on behalf of all Internet subscribers and would-be Internet subscribers in the city to ask for your help.
 Today, access to the Internet is no more a luxury than paved streets or clean tap water. Your constituents, businesses, and residents alike are in the clutches of big telco, empowered by a federal regulatory regime that cedes control.
 to the owners of the last mile infrastructure. Big Telco has absolute power to define service options you have on their network, set prices arbitrarily, sell your browsing histories, employ whatever other business strategy rings the maximum profit for their shareholders. The only practical way to escape this intolerable situation is for the users and would-be users to become owners of the infrastructure so it can be managed in their interests.
 Municipal broadband has been described here as not possible. I would direct your attention to page 51 of the 2007 feasibility study, which projected at the end of 20 years the network would be $118 million in the black, even under their wildly pessimistic 6% bond interest rate. Comcast alone takes in about $200 million per year in revenue from your constituents. Much of that revenue is pure profit made possible by the monopoly power.
 In the decades since the 2007 study, that accrued revenue could have built a public fiber network several times over. It is time to seriously pursue an at-cost fiber optic network. There is a revenue model to support it. Hundreds of communities around the country have done this. Here in Oregon, we have Sandy, Monmouth Independence, and now Hillsboro. Last week, a budget amendment for $150,000 was proposed by the Multnomah County Council
 to help fund a new feasibility study taking into consideration the changed cost and market reality since 2007, as well as the consequences of doing nothing.
 We are asking the City of Portland to match that amount as a first step towards building a network that can serve the people of Portland instead of enslave them. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Mr. Senior, instead of doing special appropriations, we have a fund that you will be able to apply for for a grant to do what you just asked for. So the application should be out fairly shortly. Okay. Thank you. Next individual, please, sir.
 Item 534, request of C. Jin Nun to address counsel regarding Portland State University MFA in art and social practice program activities. Good morning. Good morning.
 Morning, hi everyone. I'm Cie Jie and I'm from Singapore and today I'm representing the graduate program at PSU in Art and Social Practice and I'm here to talk about Assembly, our annual art event, a co-authored social practice art conference. Our theme this year is civics and our first day is going to be at City Hall this Friday all day from 9 to 6 thanks to a collaboration with Chloe Udeli and Pauline.
 And so I'm going to talk a bit about this event. Last year's assembly, we had a silent canoe ride down the Columbia River Slough, a collaboration with the Lunch Ladies at the Native American Youth and Family Center, as well as Martin Luther King Jr. School. And we also had an artist work with children at Martin Luther King Jr. School to create sculptures where they can process their emotions.
 So in this year's theme, under this year's theme of civics, the questions we're interested in asking are what is civic engagement? What are civic institutions? How are they functioning and how are we relating to them? So the lineup of events spectate or speculate two artists created the Office of Landlord Tenant Affairs or their own version of it following Mayor Wheeler's proposal of this in 2016.
 Dial in Old Friend, where you can call the city's wisest citizens who are going to give advice representing each city department in collaboration with Hollywood Senior Center. Remnants of the Color Blue, a collaboration with a former inmate at Columbia River Correctional Institution, a minimum security male prison in Northeast. Richard, a formerly incarcerated individual, is going to be presenting his artwork, and there's going to be a panel discussion.
 Difference is a field, a participatory event about having meaningful dialogue with someone you deeply disagree with. Exchange endowments to endow funding in perpetuity for a once-a-year lunch between an employee at City Hall and an artist. Citizen 100, a critical examination of citizenship in today's world in collaboration with seventh grade students from Martin Luther King Junior School in their civics class. The whole class is going to come here at 1 p.m. on Friday.
 and my own project, the City Seal of Portland, Oregon, proposing an update to the Portland City Seal. I went to the City Archives, touched documents from 1978, have been getting designs from the men at the Columbia River Correctional Institution and children at King School, and we're hoping to propose and have a voting ceremony this Friday and propose a new design to all of you.
 pluralist practices in Portland, a panel about cultural pluralism and creative activism in Portland, a one-on-one forgiveness session as well as an exploration of seeding space to generate opportunities for others. So I believe some of you might have the catalog already and for the rest of you there'll be catalogs available at the news rack on the way out as well as downstairs. Again we'll be at the atrium on Friday from 9 to 6. Employees please let your
 Employers, please let your employees off for an hour or two to attend our events. You folks are the people that we really want to engage with our event, so come reflect on these issues with us. Thank you so much. And more information available at our website. Thank you. Thank you.
 I just wanted to thank you today for coming to give that preview. I'm a big fan of the art of social practice and the social practice program at PSU. Thank you. And it's really a treat to get to work with you guys. Thank you for hosting our event. It means a lot to us. My pleasure. Thank you. Looks like a lot of fun. Thank you so much for coming. Yeah, please drop by. Thank you. Thank you. Look forward to it. Thank you.
 One more individual. Last individual, please. Request of Larry Snell to address council regarding hiring dismissal procedures. That's number 535. Mr. Snell? Possibly not present. Looks that way. Very well. Could you please tell me, Sue, has anything been pulled off of the consent agenda? No.
 Three items, number 544, 545, and 547. 544, 545, and 547? Correct. Very good. We have legal counsel here now waiting for this and anticipating 544. Your anticipation turned out to be accurate, so why don't we go ahead and take this item while we have legal counsel with us.
 I know she has to go. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. And could you, Sue, read 544 again just so people know what we're talking about? Item 544. Authorize the city attorney to institute legal proceedings against Clark County, Washington, to seek an injunction prohibiting the release of city records without further redaction. Good morning.
 Good morning, Council. I'm Tracy Reeve. I'm the Portland City Attorney, and with me is Rebecca Plaza, who's a Senior Deputy City Attorney and who oversees our public safety group. We are before you with this resolution because...
 A number of years ago, the Portland Police Bureau released a record at the request of Clark County, Washington, that was a police report of a child sex abuse incident.
 At the time of the incident, which occurred in 1992, the child was four years of age. Under Oregon law, child sex abuse reports are protected from disclosure under ORS Chapter 419B.
 Clark County notified us when they received a public records request that included this record, and they notified us that under Washington law, they would be able to make only minimal redactions, removing the victim's name but not other identifying information and not the information about the content of the report detailing the abuse.
 PPB was concerned about this, and their victim advocate reached out to this victim, and that victim indicated very strongly that they wished to have the confidentiality of the record protected. Clark County has given us some additional time before releasing the record and notified us that the way we could seek to address this issue was to ask a court for relief.
 in the form of injunctive relief asking for either that the record not be released or that it only be released with further redactions. And because of the very unique circumstances of this case and because we believe that with the events having occurred in Oregon, the record being a PPB record and the victim being located here, that...
 Oregon has the predominant interest and so we would like the opportunity to present that legal issue to the Washington County Court and ask them to evaluate this record under Oregon law because it's an Oregon record and the bulk of the contacts are with Oregon.
 Very good. Could I ask you a couple of questions about this? Number one, I get the gist of it. Number two, if we support this, what we are supporting is this will ultimately go to a judge for a final determination. Is that correct? That's correct. And...
 I assume that this is being done in collaboration with Clark County. It does not seem like this is being seen as a hostile act. This seems like there is almost a desire that this...
 conflict be resolved through a court? Certainly Clark County has been cooperative from notifying us and then from giving us additional time to seek this relief. They understand the city's position. They simply feel legally constrained. And so, yes, it's not a hostile. Everyone agrees that this is the way to sort this out. So the Oregonian this morning had an editorial on this subject. I saw that. They raised a couple of very valid points. There's some big issues at play.
 the reason that we are evaluating this is number one, to resolve the conflict between Oregon and Washington statute in these matters. And so there's a precedence question.
 The other issue that was raised by the editorial was the question of redaction, more generally speaking. Anytime government redacts, that comes at the cost of transparency and potentially government accountability. How would you respond to the larger question in this particular case, that this is a justifiable redaction, or alternatively, how can you –
 What can you say to the public that says there goes government redacting information that should be publicly disclosed? What confidence can you give the public that this is the right thing to do? Or that there are checks and balances in this process? So a couple of things. One is that I think everyone would agree that everything that the city has and uses for its business is a public record. That means, for example, that all of the taxpayer information that we have –
 that's confidential, social security numbers, employer identification numbers, et cetera, are public records. We don't obviously turn those over willy-nilly in response to public records requests because there are very legitimate privacy concerns that the legislature has recognized.
 So, too, in this situation, the Oregon legislature has made a policy decision that these records should be protected from disclosure because that balance tips in favor of the child sex abuse victim. We have this unique situation here where we gave our record to Clark County for a law enforcement purpose.
 And then the public record request was made there. So this is a very unique circumstance, but the policy decision, I would argue, has already been made by the Oregon legislature that in balancing transparency versus confidentiality for child sex abuse victims, they've come down on the side in that specific category of cases on confidentiality. So the city, you know, we respond to the vast majority of public records requests by releasing the records.
 On occasion, there is a balancing that needs to occur as to legitimate privacy interests, for example, of members of the public who give us information that they assume will be kept confidential. And so we evaluate that on a case-by-case basis. This process...
 process that is set out is when there is disagreement about that to have a legal mechanism for a trier, a fact, a decision maker to resolve that. In most cases here it's the district attorney in some cases it's the circuit court. Similarly in Washington the Washington Superior Court would be asked to look at these at the interest that the Oregon legislature has already established for confidentiality for child sex abuse victims versus
 the balance Washington has struck, and to make a decision about which state has the greater interest and which state's laws should apply. So in this case, we have a then four-year-old victim of sexual abuse whose advocate is asking that we redact specific information from this record, information I just want to fully disclose I have not seen, so I don't know what the specific information is.
 The concern being re-victimizing the four-year-old through this process. But to be clear, just so I understand the process, it will go to a judge in Washington State who will then look at the actual information and determine whether or not it is in the public's interest to disclose that information or not. Correct. And if we vote no on this, that process simply never happens or what happens?
 If we vote no on this, Clark County will release the record on June 12th? June 13th. 13th. Okay. May I? Commissioner Fish. So, Tracy, I really appreciate you bringing this forward, and I appreciate the mayor putting it up front because I think this is a very important question. A couple of things. The four-year-old victim in 1992 today would be about 30 years old? Correct. Okay. Okay.
 we don't have any extensive information about whether that person is currently in therapy, whether they have an advocate, or what the numerous bases might be as to why this individual does not want this record disclosed, correct? Correct. The only thing we know for sure is,
 is that under Oregon law there's a flat prohibition of disclosing this unless you go through a process with the DHS, a state agency.
 So you had mentioned earlier that some public records issues are resolved on a balancing test that's ultimately decided by the district attorney or the court. This is not one of them. That's correct. We have the legislature, not the city council, has made a judgment that these records should not be disclosed absent very compelling circumstances, and you'd have to go through an administrative process. Is that correct? That's correct.
 What neither the mayor nor any member of council, to my understanding, has actually read the document. So we don't know whether there's information about other family members, if there's information about the specific crime. What we do know is you have a four-year-old victim, and we do know that there was a perpetrator who either pled out or was convicted of a crime, correct? That's correct. Our assumption is that Clark County requested this information earlier.
 at some point in order to enforce a law that requires a convicted sex offender to register in a new jurisdiction. Is that correct? That is our assumption. So the bigger takeaway from me, before I get to the specific question before us, is does this case –
 prompt us to revisit what information we provide to sister law enforcement jurisdictions. But, for example, if all they need is proof that someone was convicted without the underlying documentation, it seems to me that would be...
 a policy change that we should look carefully at, correct? So that we're just giving the minimal amount of information to any other jurisdiction? That is true, and this has highlighted that issue for us. We're working with the Bureau to explore ways that they can furnish the information that other jurisdictions need without ending up in this situation again. And let's go back to the choice of law question because –
 You know, before I was elected to this council, I practiced law for 22 years. And one of the things that I was always struck by in litigation is that one of the first questions a court would decide is, which law applies? And that's why you have judges. Judges make those decisions. In federal court, you have conflicts of law that happen more regularly, because in federal court you typically have parties from different states or different jurisdictions, right?
 But this issue about whether a court chooses to enforce this law or this law, that's not a radical notion, right? That's what judges do. They decide what body of law applies, and then they apply it.
 Absolutely. I remember first year civil procedure learning about choice of law. And as a technical matter, while we often see federal judges make those decisions, this state court judge may also decide based on the policy considerations, the history of the interest that Oregon has, and Oregon's clear statement of the law.
 to apply our values and principles in deciding this question, correct? Absolutely. State court judges, although you're right, of course, Commissioner, that it's more common in federal courts, state courts also make choice of law decisions. Now, we were notified of this as a third-party notification from Clark County, and that's a routine matter, right? They're getting a records request, it's our record, and they give us notifications. So there's nothing abnormal about that. That's correct. Okay.
 The notice to the city said, if you have a concern about this record being disclosed, i.e., we recognize that this could not be disclosed under Oregon law, then your recourse is to bring an injunction, meaning bring a legal proceeding and ask a judge to decide it, correct? That's correct. And to the mayor's point, that is viewed as a legal garden variety kind of proceeding –
 where we allow a neutral third party to decide the question that may be in dispute. Exactly. But let's be clear. If this perpetrator today abandoned the Clark County proceeding and came to Oregon and said, I want these records, he or she could not get them. That's correct. All right.
 To the editorial, which I read with some interest today, because it seems to me it omitted a lot of relevant information, including the age of the victim, including the fact that there is a procedure to decide these questions. And by the way, for those who argue that we should never have a district attorney or a judge decide these cases, I'm all for eliminating our whole judicial system. We could save a lot of money.
 No, seriously. And I would remind people that the cases that get to the Supreme Court have usually been decided by three, four, five, six courts. And if we really want to save money, we could just have one judge decide it and not have an appeal and save a ton of money.
 Cases that go to the Supreme Court often come up through the state court system, and they go to the federal court system, and they go to a federal appellate court, and then they are heard by judges, a bigger panel of federal judges, and then they're remanded and they're heard again. And, of course, I'm not typically aware of people referring to that as a manipulation. We actually treasure that as part of the due process in our country to make sure we get a good decision. So, yeah.
 What is the, quote, manipulation here that the Oregon Editorial Board refers to of the city seeking a ruling from an independent court, frankly a court?
 of another state, so you could argue the deck is a little stacked. What's the manipulation in honoring the request of the victim and having the court decide this question? Well, frankly, Commissioner Fish, I'm not aware of anything about that that is manipulation. Having an unbiased decision-maker resolve issues such as this is really the foundation of the rule of law in our democracy. And finally, Mayor and colleagues, if public records absolutists –
 believe that Oregon law is wrong, there is recourse. That is to bring a bill before the legislature because this has been decided. We do not give out this information unless you go through an extensive administrative process and then we get to balance things like the impact on the victim and the victim's family and having this information out there. And frankly, knowing nothing about this, I can just only imagine
 We can only imagine the kind of information that someone would not want disclosed in a case that is, you know, now what, almost 20 years stale.
 This person may have a family. This person, there may be other people identified in this report. We can only imagine. Oregon has decided that question. So the only question before us is, do we authorize you to let a judge in the state of Washington decide whether Oregon's concerns trump the more lax standards in Washington, yay or nay? And what would be the cost of that litigation? No.
 Well, we're already here working, and we may have some relatively minor filing fee, but other than that, there will be no cost.
 And is it conceivable that even if we lose this proceeding in standing up for this victim, it also helps us, whatever the ruling is, helps shape whatever policy that we adopt going forward about what records we do share with sister jurisdictions in the future? Certainly. And we're going to work on that issue, and this will inform that. Well, thank you for a very clear presentation. Thank you. I'm just curious, who is requesting this public record in Washington, D.C.?
 We believe, based on the information available to us, that it is the alleged – well, not alleged because they pled guilty and were convicted, but the perpetrator. That is our belief. Yeah? I see what it was. Public testimony? This is the public's time. Help guide us. Good for Portland. I think that the –
 The victim in this case, definitely regardless of the person's age today, that their identity should be protected. And I think the city... Mary, can I just qualify something for you? They are willing to redact the name, but as you can imagine, a report that has other identifying information can not only help someone connect the dots to the victim...
 but to family members and other members. So you are, and I'm just talking conceptually here, a lot of different individuals could be unmasked, if you will, through the disclosure of this, and simply redacting the victims, anybody can put two and two together at some point. Yeah, and that's my broader point, is that I think that you're doing the right thing.
 by going down the path that you're going down to have a judge or somebody make this decision. And I applaud you. I support it. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Creativity Watchdog. Again, my concern is the perpetrator. It appears to me that is there in any way that the perpetrator is being protected by this? I would like full disclosure who that is.
 I'd like to understand what state that person is living in. I'd like to understand what type of job they currently have. I'd like to understand if they're running for any political office. I'd like to understand why the city of Portland is positioning themselves right now so aggressively on this one particular case to, in my opinion, almost keep it kind of hush and not have things disclosed.
 What is the true motivation behind the City of Portland to do that? Do they do that on other cases? Have they done that on other cases? But what is it about this case right now that they want to step in and do this? I want to have a clear understanding from my position who the perpetrator is, where that perpetrator resides, what information the public has on that perpetrator. Thank you.
 And is this a way to keep that silenced at this time from the city of Portland? Because Washington wants to release that information if I'm correct. But the city of Portland, for some reason, wants to silence certain things on this agreement. And I want to see all of the information. Now, I'll agree. The victim has a right not to be disclosed.
 But is that what we're trying to do right now, and only right now, on the victim? So are they just going to look at the victim's name and cross that over? Are they going to start crossing out other names? And that's what I want to know. Is the city of Portland in any way protecting the perpetrator and their family members and their relatives and anybody around this perpetrator in any way? And that's why they're taking an aggressive approach right now. Or have they done this in the past?
 And they were successful. Obviously they haven't been, but yet they're really focusing right now on this situation. So I just want to see all the details. Again, I don't want to know who the victim is, not from my position. But I want to know who that perpetrator is, and I want to know more facts and more data on this and not keep it hush. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice.
 We were thoroughly confused with this item. We didn't understand how in God's name you could put it on consent agenda. We just had an intelligent, good discussion on this item. But you wanted it on consent agenda, and at least the three people who spoke on the council had no clue of what they were going to vote on. And you admitted that.
 which drives us a little bit more crazy that you're voting on something you do not understand. We didn't understand it. We took it that we have documents that Washington wants, and we want to redact it more than they do. That's what we got out of that. That's what the discussion is close to that. That's the main issue, I think.
 the other way around. We are more severe. It won't cut into your time, Joe, but they have... Washington... Clark County has the document. That's what we didn't understand. Who had the documents? Clark County has the document. Where did they get the documents from? They got it from the city of Portland. Okay, stop there. Why can't we...
 or the state of Oregon say, this is the way you're going to get the documents. Like, if I were to get these documents, I would probably be denied. So we do have safeguards. I'm suggesting that we extend the safeguards and say, this is our redacted policy, and I don't care if you're Joe Walsh or you're the DA for some city.
 This is what you're getting, because it's our laws and it's our responsibility to keep those documents safe. So we were totally confused about how the hell did they get the documents? They already have them. All we're trying to do now, I think, is to stop them from actually publishing or making it public awareness or public documents. That's our suggestion. Our suggestion is to expand.
 Whatever's needed, and maybe the city council could contact our representatives, and I surely will contact my representatives and say, what is this? Why can't we stop this stuff? We are all in favor of the victim here. There's no argument here.
 We're just trying to figure out what the hell happened. And this is why we don't like these gender items. Because we like these discussions. It's intelligent. You were very, very good, Commissioner Fish. You asked really good questions. So were you, Mayor.
 That's what we need. Thank you, and I'll pay you back sometime. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Can we have the city attorney just come back for one second? Tracy, could you come back for one moment? Commissioner Fish has a follow-up question based on testimony. Oh, I'm sorry. We have one other. Cedric. Cedric, are you testifying on this matter? Yes. I'm sorry. Oh, Cedric, why don't you go ahead and finish, and then we'll have Tracy. Thanks. Sorry. Yeah, please go ahead. Okay.
 I'm Cedric Wilkins. In the next couple of weeks, I will get involved with immigrant rights. Perhaps this relates to their background and picking up reasons why they shouldn't live here. And so I would prefer that these issues on people's background be kept a secret as much as possible. And so that's basically why I side with Oregon and this attempt here. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. Jeanette Thiebert. Didn't think I'd be speaking on this, but I'm going to surprise you all and be under three minutes. As a family member of a similar scenario, I'm encouraged by your line of questioning, Commissioner Fish. I highly – a similar scenario played out amongst people that I care about, and that person was close to the same age of this individual. And –
 If that came out again, it would totally unravel the victim's life. And so for that reason, I commend the type of questioning and the due diligence that your office is doing. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Two questions, Tracy. And one is suggested by testimony that we had before. Sure.
 In any injunction proceeding that we initiate to have a court rule on this question, would the victim have standing to intervene to set forth his or her position on this case?
 We will provide the victim with notice, and I would think a court would find that the victim has standing. I think it's very important. I think my sense for my colleagues is we'd want to make sure that the victim had a chance through an attorney to be heard on this question. Because it's clear that if this proceeding was initiated in Oregon...
 that the victim's interests would be protected by DHS and by state law, which is very clear. Absolutely. And my second question is just about how we avoid these situations in the future. And I realize this goes back to 1992, and I don't know when these records were actually forwarded to Clark County, but when someone is convicted of a sex offense –
 They do have to register in every jurisdiction where they live, and presumably there's a standard protocol where police agencies ask for some confirmation that someone was convicted. It seems to me we could come up with a template for that.
 that gave them what they needed without revealing information that under Oregon law would be considered confidential. Absolutely, and I think this has clarified for all of us that we need to have that type of procedure in place so we don't have this situation in the future. And I think we have the template that you suggested to me earlier when we spoke, which is –
 We currently go the extra mile to make sure that any information we share with a sister law enforcement agency is not used improperly by ICE in violation of state law, correct? Correct. So we have a mechanism to ensure that our values and our laws are followed, even if we share information with someone else. Correct. Thank you.
 Commissioner Udaly. Tracy, I just want to thank you for your efforts on this. It's a really thorny issue and a difficult conversation. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, obviously when someone's convicted of a crime, that's a matter of public record. When someone's convicted of a sexual assault, they are required to register. That information is also available online. Okay.
 And I support shielding the survivor, which is what I would encourage everyone to call this individual 20 years later. They're a survivor from any additional exposure or trauma because we don't do nearly enough to support sexual assault victims to begin with. And this...
 This could be very devastating to this individual and other members of the family. And I just want to state as well that PPB was very concerned about this, and they're the ones who brought it to our attention because they were very concerned about protecting the survivor. Very good. Thank you. Sue, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Resolution is adopted. Thank you.
 Moving on to something more cheerful, time-certain item 536. Excuse me, Mayor. Could we have the vote on the consent agenda? Oh, I don't believe we did. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Southman? Aye. Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. All right. Consent agenda is adopted. 536, please. 536, proclaim May 30 through June 12 to be 32nd Annual Great Blue Heron Week.
 Is Mike Houck here? Yeah. I know I saw him earlier. Yeah, he's here. There he is. Come on up, Mr. Houck. Mike Houck, my friend. All right. While Mike is coming up, I want to read a proclamation on behalf of the Portland City Council and the city of Portland. This is, of course, Blue Heron Week. And in a moment, Mike is going to introduce us to a friend.
 Whereas the great blue heron is a majestic symbol of the City of Portland's efforts to restore, protect, and sustain ecologically healthy habitats for fish and wildlife and for the enjoyment of people across the region. And whereas Portland Parks and Recreation is the proud owner of 50 acres of Ross Island and are conducting ecological restoration on the island.
 And whereas the Bureau of Environmental Services adopted its new 10-year strategic plan continuing their commitment to watershed health and green infrastructure. And whereas the city has launched a major restoration effort in partnership with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to improve fish and wildlife habitat at the 160-acre Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge.
 And whereas the city has adopted innovative wildlife strategies, including a new eco-roof mandate and bird-safe building requirements for the central city, and will continue to build upon these efforts by developing a light pollution ordinance.
 And whereas the city's central reach river plan expands the Willamette River Greenway to 50 feet, sets ambitious targets for riverbank restoration, and whereas the city will update its floodplain management program to comply with the new federal requirements to protect salmon, to improve the ecological benefits of the river.
 and to increase resiliency in the face of climate change. And whereas the south reach of the Willamette River planning by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability will set a new, renewed vision and strengthen connections to the river.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 30th through June 12th to be 32nd annual Great Blue Heron Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week.
 And colleagues, as we are often graced today, we are again graced by Mike Houck, who has been one of this city's great environmental leaders, and he's here to introduce us to his friend.
 Good morning, Mike. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Thanks for being here. And commissioners. Yeah, in 1986, then-Mayor Bud Clark gave a presentation welcoming address to Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Managers. And I think some of you are aware that he was and is, continues to be, a canoeing enthusiast and a duck hunter.
 And he must have mentioned Great Blue Herons 10 or 15 times during his presentation. So I took the opportunity to grab him on the way out of the Hilton Hotel and suggested we should have a city bird, the Great Blue Heron. And he did say, whoop, whoop. And two weeks later, we had a proclamation. And this may sound trivial to some people, but the fact of the matter is, as with today, this is the 32nd time.
 time I've been here. It's provided us with an opportunity to interact with you and with city staff to reflect on all the great work that has been done already to ensure Herons will be around in another 50 or 100 years, and as you noted in the proclamation, what we intend to do to continue that work.
 To that end, each year we put on a number of events. Tomorrow night, Commissioner Fish will be present for Tim Beatley's Biophilic Cities presentation at Portland State University. Each year we do a canoe trip, kayak trip around Ross Island, which I would invite all of you to participate in on June 10th. I've listed a number of other activities.
 that we hold during this week. Each year, I also read a poem from William Stafford. Unfortunately, Kim...
 Stafford, who was just appointed poet laureate for the state of Oregon, had to leave. So I will once again read it in Kim's absence. I will mention that Kim said that this is the only poem he actually saw William Stafford, when he was poet laureate for the state of Oregon, write. They were together in a motel room apparently in Washington, D.C., and William Stafford said,
 I have to write this poem. I've got to get it back to Hauk. And so he was actually quite pleased to be able to be here this morning. Unfortunately, he had to leave, as I said. So what I'd like to do is close by simply reading the poem, which, quite frankly, I was hoping he would read because I get kind of teared up when I read it. It's such a spectacular comment on the importance of nature in the city of Portland. So I'll do my best to get through it. Thanks, Mike.
 Spirit of place, great blue heron. Out of their loneliness for each other, two reeds, or maybe two shadows, lurch forward and become suddenly a life lifted from the dawn or the rain. It is the wilderness come back again, a lagoon with our city reflected in its eye. We live by faith in such presences. It is a test for us, that thin but real undulating figure that promises to be
 If you keep faith, I will exist at the edge where your vision joins the sunlight and the rain. Heads in the light, feet that go down in the mud where the truth is. William Stafford.
 That's beautiful. And you gave us a handout. Is this actually the original? That is the original. The original? Yeah. That's impressive. And I did, I can't remember who requested a couple years ago, submit the original to the city archives to make sure it was in the archives. That's great. Thank you, Mike. Mike, how many years have you done this? This is the 32nd year. That's really extraordinary. Could you take your crystal ball out for a second and –
 and just give us a sense, let's say 10 years from now, if all the forces that you've helped unleash come together and continue to move forward, what might Ross Island look like?
 Yeah, my relationship with Ross Island goes back to 1979 when I was testifying before city council to have the Great Blue Heron colony protected with a 350-foot buffer. And actually at that hearing, Charles Jordan, who was city commissioner at the time, interrupted me and asked if that was the same bird that came into his backyard and ate his koi. Fortunately, they did, in fact, put the buffer around the heron colony and, of course...
 Six or seven years ago, bald eagles moved in and the herons had to move out. That's a very interesting question. As you know, the city now owns about 50 acres and is engaged in a lot of restoration. I'm hopeful that we can have more interaction with Ross Island Sand and Gravel and look more seriously at expanding the restoration that they are currently undertaking.
 as part of Superfund, perhaps. I could imagine additional funds to go beyond the minimum that Ross Island Sand and Gravel has been...
 asked to complete, which they're pretty far behind schedule right now, actually. So I'm hopeful that we would have an island that has significantly more shallow water habitat and emergent wetlands and riparian habitat to go with Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge and the Holgate Channel. That's probably about 350 or 400 acres of incredible habitat in the heart of the city. Okay.
 And I'm also hopeful that we have a lot more protection and restoration on the banks of the Willamette River itself. Thank you. I'd just like to take this opportunity to thank you for doing this for 32 years and for all you've done over your career for really opening nature.
 in our city to everyone. You make it really hands-on and easy, and you underscore the value of our environment. So thanks, Mike. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Actually, I will say that in 1982, when I became a naturalist at Audubon Society, I was told by...
 Most of the local planners, one in particular in Clackamas County, that there is no place for nature in the city. That's where we started in 1982, and I think we've come a long ways, thankfully. Well, Mike, thanks to your leadership, nature in the city is actually one of our defining characteristics. So thank you for that. Thanks for continuing the fight. Great. Very good. Would you mind if we have a photographer? I think it would be great. I'd love it. Great. Thanks, Mike.
 All right. That's fantastic. Next up, 537. 537. Accept donation of goods and services from Downtown Clean and Safe for the improvement of downtown public solid waste and recycling collection. Okay.
 Colleagues, this ordinance is a continuation of a longstanding partnership between the Portland Business Alliance, Downtown Clean and Safe, and the city to improve the downtown public garbage can program. For over 20 years, Clean and Safe has provided various services to help manage the city's downtown trash removal and other cleaning services.
 This ordinance will allow the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to accept the donation of a new style of garbage cans and additional services to further enhance the downtown public garbage can program.
 We recognize that the PBA has invested a significant amount of money in the downtown garbage can program over the years, including previous donations of garbage cans, which will be refurbished as part of this new agreement.
 The city's acceptance of Clean and Safe donations will allow BPS, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, to focus funding on their citywide public garbage can expansion project and other program improvements.
 The city values Clean and Safe's dedication to maintaining downtown as a vibrant and inviting place, and their generous donations continue to support that viability and the livability of the downtown area. Thank you so much for being here today. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jill Kolick, and I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm a sustainability manager.
 And before you today is an ordinance to accept a donation for goods and services from Downtown Clean and Safe. The donation will enhance the City of Portland's Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's public trash can and recycling program in the Downtown area. As a reminder, BPS contracts with private haulers to collect garbage and recycling from cans and the public right away, located in a number of districts, including Downtown.
 And there's a number of downtown jobs, housing, visitors, the number just keeps increasing. And over the years the cans have increased as well. And we're requiring more investment to keep the operating effectively and efficiently. The City's acceptance of the Clean and Safe Donation will allow BPS to focus funding on the citywide garbage can expansion program and other program maintenance.
 So the support of the program, the donation of goods and services, will include new garbage cans to replace the older units. They're going to refurbish BPS-owned solar-operated compacting garbage cans. And they're going to contract with a private company to provide cleaning and repair services for all of our garbage cans that we own downtown. And there's also potentially other aspects of the agreement that haven't been sorted out, but we think there'll be other pieces that can further enhance the program.
 This ordinance will have a positive long-term impact on the city's solid waste management fund by reducing city's expenditures and repair and maintenance of downtown garbage cans. The memorandum of understanding accompanying this ordinance described the roles and responsibilities for clean and safe and BPS staff. There's no additional BPS staff needed. It's all within our current structure. Thank you.
 And the Clean and Safe and BPS collaboratively identified donations with a total value of $165,000 for the first year of their agreement. These goods and services will be paid directly by Clean and Safe and will not pass through city accounts or budgets. So in closing, should the council approve this donation, all Portlanders and tourists will visit downtown and would benefit from a cleaner, healthier neighborhood and business district. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Lene Berg. I'm the Executive Director of Downtown Clean and Safe and the Vice President of Downtown Services for the Business Alliance. Morning. Good morning. You've already talked a bit about the history of the district and the amenities that we provide downtown and our shared goal of a clean and vibrant central city.
 In 2009, when the Clean and Safe District and the Business Alliance embarked on a partnership to provide the big bellies at the time, that was state of the art. They promised to hold five times the capacity of a normal trash can.
 And although they do in many areas, we have noted with the increase in food carts and wet garbage that the big bellies just are not the right fit for the food cart areas. So in conjunction with BPS, we've identified the high-capacity garbage cans, which we feel...
 We'll replace the concrete rounds in some of the big bellies around the food carts and really address some of the concerns. I would like to highlight as an indicator of the growing need for this that last year our cleaners picked up almost 724 tons of garbage from city sidewalks downtown.
 That is up from 635 tons in 2016 and 485 in 2015. So you can see that the need for additional capacity is really growing. Okay.
 My board, the Clean and Safe Board, has voted to support these new high-capacity garbage cans, and we've earmarked $200,000 in this fiscal year and an additional $200,000 in the next fiscal year to convert all the remaining cement rounds to the high-volume cans, which have a strong locking mechanism and will allow for the haulers to have a greater ease of pickup.
 With your support today, we are prepared to purchase 100 units that can be manufactured and deployed downtown by midsummer. In addition to the purchase of these new garbage cans, we have worked with local graphic designer Dan Stiles, who has designed downtown Portland holiday graphics for the past two years. In the past, we've used the Big Belly Garbage Cans.
 big belly garbage cans to showcase sponsors scenic shots from downtown and even district logos as you can see we feel this new garbage can purchase is an opportunity to break the mold and we can transform the entire garbage can into a to bring more fun and energy to the streets downtown so here is one example with a popsicle but if you want to go to the run through the next ones we envision characters including zoo animals
 robots, zoo animals, robots, ice cream cones, books, and bicycles.
 We can do something standard or we can execute something quirky that fits with the unique character of Portland and create garbage cans that are enjoyed and photographed by locals and tourists. While this new design would incorporate a full wrap of the garbage can and not a partial wrap, the image and branding would still conform to the city's regulations regarding advertising in the right-of-way.
 We want to thank the City of Portland and the ongoing partnership we have with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to ensure that downtown Portland is clean, safe, and an attractive place. Thank you. Thank you, Lynnae. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you for your partnership in this and for your innovation. Is there currently food composting near the food carts?
 I believe the county is working on that, but I don't know in the back of the house if they're requiring that. Yeah, it seems like that's an opportunity for people to scrape off their leftovers, which then would be less going into the waste stream. Right. So I appreciate you looking into that. Thank you. I'm just curious, on the weekends, like after a very busy Saturday night, when is the garbage collected on Sundays? I don't know. It's heavy. I don't know.
 The garbage cans that get the most use, including those by the food cart pods, are emptied currently six days a week. So they're emptied very early in the morning on Saturday, but then not again until Monday morning. We are currently in the process of working with our private hauler to add that seventh-day collection on Sunday morning so that they wouldn't go without collection for 24 hours. It seems to me that's the night they often get the most use. Good. Thank you. So we used to have...
 Are we still have recycling baskets kind of attached to some of our trash cans? In the downtown area? Yeah. Are we doing away with that? I don't know how effective it is for people to actually use those or not. Yeah, it's a mixed bag. It's somewhat effective, but we have removed them from parts of the downtown core. The new cans will have a shelf on the side where people can place their cans and bottles. Oh, they will. So they're more easily –
 Picked up by people who use them to redeem them. Yeah. That's a good idea. And those skins can be swapped out? Covers, the wraps? Yes. And they'll be wiped down and be treated in a way that will be harder to do graffiti on them. Right. But they can be replaced? Yes. Okay. Interesting. That's great. Very good. Any public testimony on this item?
 We have one individual signed up, Mary Seidt. Come on up, Mary. Great presentation. Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Lynette. Good morning. My name is Mary Seidt. I really support this, and I encourage the city council to accept this donation. I think it's a great idea, and I want to thank Clean and Safe for the work that they do. I just cannot believe that between 2015 and 2018 that the –
 We went from 485 tons to 724 tons of trash. That tells me a couple of things. One is that...
 uh, we're a wasteful society. Um, the, the packaging, uh, that manufacturers use, uh, is just excessive and unnecessary. And I think we need to start, uh, maybe leaning in the direction of trying to reduce the amount of trash in the first place. Uh, uh, it's great that we increased the amount of trash receptacles, but, um, I think we really need to start focusing on reducing the trash in the first place. And, um,
 I having grown up in the Portland metropolitan area I look back to how we used to be the cleanest city in the nation and we took great pride in that and if you walk around our city today it's not what it used to be and I remember I remember
 I think there were signs that said, keep Oregon beautiful or something like that. Yeah. That were everywhere. And so I would encourage that maybe we start doing some kind of campaign. I'm so discouraged. This weekend I was sitting at a Starbucks downtown. And as I was sitting there, I watched two people walking down the street and
 literally walk past a trash can and throw their trash on the sidewalk.
 One person was unwrapping something, and as he walked down the block, he would throw, unwrap, throw, unwrap, throw, unwrap, all the way down the block. And so I think we also, you know, we need to start having some sense of personal responsibility in our society and having a conscience. And the next time I see somebody do that, I'm going to jump up out of my seat at Starbucks, I'm going to run across the street, and I'm going to pick up their trash, and I'm going to tell them to pick up their trash.
 It's time for us to take some responsibility as citizens for keeping our city clean and safe. And I just...
 I had to say that. Yeah, Mary, and I can relate to that. A couple of years ago, I watched somebody take a coffee cup and dump it on the ground at a stoplight. So I got out of my car, picked it up, and handed it to him. And I realized as soon as I handed it to him, I made a terrible mistake because I actually thought he might shoot me. I know. He was really irate about it.
 That being said, I agree with you, and I think this ordinance is important. The fact that it's a partnership with the business community makes a lot of sense. There's a mutual interest here. But getting back to your larger point, it wasn't that long ago that I started commuting to Salem as state treasurer, and I actually enjoyed my commute for a lot of reasons.
 But over the course of the six years that I was state treasurer, the amount of trash and litter along I-5 all the way between Portland and Salem increased dramatically.
 And, I mean, I remember a time where if you threw garbage out of your car, you dropped something on the ground, I mean, little white vans would pull up and people would get out in hazmat suits, would pick their uppers, and they'd collect it. It just wasn't done. It was part of the ethos to keep our community clean. It is not part of our ethos today, and we need to reinvest in that.
 And this program, it may seem small, but it's actually, I think, going to make a big difference. The fact that we're able to start now moving community-wide with the program, thanks to the generosity of Clean and Safe and the work of BPS, there's a real opportunity here to get that ethos back. And I agree, we probably should do something around a community campaign again. They seem a little bit, you know, we've been exposed to a lot of campaigns over the years, but it did work.
 Yeah, it was very effective. I'm mindful of the case of Texas. And sorry to go on, but this is a really important issue. And I want people to know, we get hundreds of calls about trash in our office over the course of maybe every week or two. Hundreds of calls about it. People saying just what you do, what's going on here. Texas couldn't figure out why there were so many cigarette butts around.
 on the sides of their roads. And they tried all kinds of things like, please, you know, use your ashtray, please clean up the garbage. And they realized that the demographic that was actually largely responsible, uh, and had people a lot like me, um, throwing cigarette butts out of the car. I don't smoke by the way, but, uh,
 They found out that that messaging just didn't work, that please do this, please do that. Don't mess with Texas. And having some Dallas Cowboy stars saying don't mess with Texas.
 And then all of a sudden, you started to see a lot of bumper stickers on pickup trucks and other vehicles saying, don't mess with Texas. All of a sudden, it worked. And so you just got to find that right. How do you really connect with people, particularly those who are maybe like the ones you're describing, where they're just walking down the street being super careless about what they're doing? We've got to get that ethos back. Mayor, can I just add one thing? You know, Mayor, you're...
 We're sort of channeling, I think, a figure in history that was very noted for this, which was Lyndon Johnson's wife, Lady Bird Johnson. And she was part of that Keep America Beautiful movement and keeping the parks clean. And it was something that she framed and talked about. Since we're talking about anecdotes that bother us, I will say that I had an all-time low the other day when I was riding my bike on the Vera Katz Esplanade.
 and it had been a weekend in which Solve had gone in to do a cleanup, which is wonderful. And they do what they always do, which is they then pile the garbage next to a garbage can to be picked up. And in the interval between piling it and the pickup, people had come along and opened it up and scattered all the garbage all over the place. And it ought to be, you know, some things, you know, the idea that you could cure that through education or a sign or something, there's just some things you shouldn't have to, like,
 We shouldn't have to remind people that's not okay. And it completely undid basically the benefit of what volunteers did in collecting the garbage. So I hope – I see it a lot because I walk around downtown a lot more than I used to. I see it with people that buy fast food, and then they're getting ready to leave on the street corner, and they just leave their trash in the street. I just don't know what –
 gets into some, and I'm not even going to mention, you know, predominant license plates that I see associated with this act. But it's just I can't believe that people would do that. It's such disrespect. It's a moral issue. It really is. And I look at it sometimes and I think, you know, some of it I'm sure is my Catholic school guilt, Catholic girl guilt. But I just, I cannot throw something away.
 a way it just, you know, it's just an inherent thing. Like I'm going to be struck by lightning if I do it, you know? So anyhow, this, this is a good thing. Great. Thank you. Sue, please call the roll fish. Well, thank you. Downtown clean and safe for your leadership. I'm thrilled to hear that we're going to negotiate for a seventh day pickup because I think Sundays have now become a significant issue. And, um,
 Really exciting to see the way that you've incorporated art into the design. And so thank you for your great partnership. I. Saltzman. I want to thank Clean and Safe, Bureau of Planning, Sustainability, the Business Alliance for caring so much about trash downtown. You know, and I do think some of the anecdotes we're talking about do emanate from the fact that I don't think we have enough trash cans in our city.
 and I'll use my gold standard, which is New York City. I mean, you can't find a block face that doesn't have at least one trash can on it, and I think that needs to be our gold standard too. We need to have more. I appreciate all the work going on, but we need more of them, and I think that's why some people are just too blame-lazy to walk another block and find that trash can that is there, and that's why we need to have more of them. Hi. Eudaly. Eudaly.
 Well, thank you. I'm particularly excited about the replaceable wraps and all the possibilities that that holds. And I just want to reiterate what Commissioner Saltzman said. This is a big issue in all of our business districts, really, and it often bleeds over into the neighborhoods. So I'm adding it to my to-do list. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz? I'm very grateful to Clean and Safe and particularly to Central City Concern and their staff who do such great work. I very much appreciate how clean they keep our downtown. It's interesting because just this morning I was walking past the bus stop on Hawthorne, or rather on Madison, where there's a trash can right there,
 and saw a coffee cup on the floor within literally five steps of the next trash can on the next corner by City Hall. So people just need to be more respectful. Why should somebody else have to pick up your coffee cup? I don't get it. And so in the meantime, while they're not, maybe the rest of us just picking up their stuff and putting it in the right place would lead by example in getting people to do the right thing. Thank you very much for your partnership. Bye.
 Wheeler. So here is one more great example of how the business community is partnering with the Portland City Government. I'm very pleased with this arrangement. Clean and Safe has been a valuable contributor to our community for many, many years. The Portland Business Alliance has been an important partner to us as recently as a few days ago when we took our first vote on our budget.
 I think this is a great program, and I agree with Commissioner Saltzman, and I agree with where I think Lynnae is headed with this as well. This is a great program. It's proven in terms of its results. It is supported by the public. I really appreciate the attention to the aesthetic nature.
 of these new receptacles. I think they look really great, really fun, and very Portland-esque. So thank you for that. We look forward to strengthening and expanding the program in the years ahead, hopefully through continued partnership with Clean and Safe. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, I need to take a one-minute recess.
 All right, why don't we go ahead and start. I know Commissioner Fish is here. He'll be here momentarily. So we are back today to follow up on the May 24th session. Just a reminder that the record is closed and no further testimony will be accepted. Sue, can you please read both items 538 and item 539? Okay.
 538, adopt the Central City 2035 Plan, amend the Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map, Transportation System Plan, Willamette Greenway Plan, Scenic Resources Protection Plan, Zoning Map, and Title 33. Authorize adoption of administration rules, repeal and replace prior Central City plans and documents. 538.
 539, amend the Central City Plan District of the Zoning Code to increase bonus heights and impose master plan requirements in certain River Place sub-areas. Very good. Sally, do you want to go ahead and kick us off today? Yes, thank you very much. So on May 24th, Council took a number of actions to move Central City 2035 toward final adoption.
 But there are a few additional items that we need to accomplish today to prepare us for that final vote on June 6th. All of the items today relate to the requirement for a shadow study adjacent to parks and open spaces. One relates to the main ordinance.
 and one to the River Place Ordinance. And then I understand Commissioner Fritz has an amendment or two that she'd like to introduce. So you have a packet in front of you dated May 30, 2018, revised, and that contains these amendments. Also, just as a reminder, all 25 boxes of the legal record are in the balcony today. Okay.
 So thank you so much. First of all, I hope the balcony holds up. And I will get to Commissioner Fritz's amendment or amendments in just a moment. But I'd like to begin today by withdrawing my motion on what we referred to as Technical Amendment 9 to the Maine Central City Act.
 2035 ordinance, and that was from the May 24th meeting. And the reason for that is that staff has a new, simpler proposal to address the shadow study that we identified. And I understand, Rachel, you're going to describe the new amendment. Is that correct? Yes, thank you. Rachel Hurley with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So the amendment on the table, as...
 mentioned through the Central City 2035 plan We've added more parks and open spaces that will require we be required to conduct a shadow study This came out of the West quadrant planning process the the requirement was expanded north of Burnside since the 80s we've had the requirement along the park blocks and so we looked throughout the West quadrant and and
 from that public process, it was determined expanding the requirement to other parks and open spaces would be valuable. So what this amendment does is it clarifies that the requirement applies to properties with both base and bonus height. So we needed to add the requirement to both maps. We have two new height maps. We have a base height map and a bonus height map. So that's part of the requirement to add it to those maps.
 And as I said, it's also to apply it to properties that have both just a base height and those properties that also have base plus a bonus height. The changes we've made also confirm that the shadow analysis is adjustable.
 And we've added some language to confirm as well that you cannot adjust heights on your map. So base heights are prohibited from being adjusted, and bonus heights are prohibited from being adjusted. And the code has read that before. This was just clarifying and confirming by clearly noting in the code what's adjustable and what's not. Okay.
 Very good. I move this amendment, which includes amended commentary code and maps as shown in the May 30, 2018 BPS memo, which everybody should have in front of them. Second. And we have a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Any discussion on this item? I'm sorry, is this the whole of this packet that you just gave me?
 I'm sorry? This is this whole packet that I just got? Yes, so the packet here, starting on page three, at the bottom of the page, it's the full, I should have mentioned, it's the full height section, which is quite a bit of code, but we've graded, we've highlighted the few areas where the changes needed to be made that I just mentioned, as well as the height maps are included in the packet, which reflect those changes.
 Commissioner Fritz, if I may, I think if you're trying to clarify, I believe it's pages 3 through 15 of the packet that you have. So it's Amendment A of that packet, which is sponsored by the mayor, not Amendment B, which is on the last page of page 16 of the packet. And I was obviously focused on something else. Have I had this before?
 This is an update to the Amendment No. 9 that Mayor Wheeler referred to. Staff, as that's been removed, this is a replacement. We've simplified it, and we've highlighted for you the areas and the maps where –
 the code needed to be updated to apply the shadow study to properties with base heights as well as properties with bonus heights. All of this that's underlined, I've seen that before. The only new part is shaded. That's correct. Everything that's underlined, yes, it has been in the draft, the recommended draft that has been before council. Okay. Thank you. Well, right. Okay. Sue, could you please call the roll?
 Fish. Aye. Sossman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment's adopted. Now moving on, I understand Commissioner Fritz has an amendment or amendments. I do, and I understand that Rachel has part of it to hand out for me, the language. Yes. And then these are the shadow studies that the Bureau has wrapped together for me.
 And each person gets one packet? Yeah. Okay. There's one extra here. Thank you. Thank you. And I have a copy for the records, too. So this is with respect to the Lanzhou Chinese Garden that was discussed last week.
 My previous amendment was to say that for Lansu Chinese Garden, the adjustments to the shade study are prohibited, and I would like to withdraw that amendment because it's absolutely meaningless.
 The shading of the Lansu China's garden isn't at the particular times that are specified in the rest of the code. If you look at the smaller document showing the shade studies at 4 p.m. on June 21st and 5 p.m. on June 21st, particularly 5 p.m. on June 21st. So if you could just put this forward, have this so that the cameras can see it, please. Can you make it so that I...
 I'm withdrawing this amendment that's on the screen right now because none of those... You don't have it? No. Can you take the PowerPoint down so that the design commissioner prints? Oh, I'm sorry. Of course. Of course. So that's the amendment I'm withdrawing because adjustments being prohibited doesn't make a hill of beans because there isn't any shadow at those particular times. The challenge is for the garden that the shadow from the new building is at 4 and 5 and 6 o'clock.
 with the most shadow being at 5 o'clock. So yes, I know it's open until 7 o'clock, but if it's okay at 5 o'clock, it'll be okay at 7 o'clock. So that's why I have a new amendment, which you just got, did you? Yes. And that is for the shadow study to basically be the same as before, except limiting the shadow analysis to 20% of the adjacent open space at any hour of the day, June 21st and September 21st.
 And you'll notice that I have not made this with adjustments being prohibited. So somebody who wanted to shade the garden more than 20% at any time of the day could come to council or could ask the Historic Landmarks Commission and the council to do that.
 And Commissioner Fritz, if I just may, to clarify, everything that's shaded here under the standard that Commissioner Fritz has passed out, it's just C1A, which Commissioner Fritz read, which is the new information. Everything else that is shaded is the same as the existing dates and times. So could I get a second to my amendment, please? Thank you.
 I'll second it for discussion purposes, but I have a bunch of questions about this. First of all, are we looking at 200 feet here in this picture? What are we looking at? Yes, that's 200 feet. Okay, and currently under current zoning, what is allowed? 415. That was for the last several years. We have been working to make sure that the heights were consistent with the historic district and with not shading the Chinese Garden. Okay, so I'm looking at the...
 shadow analysis that you sent around yesterday and it shows 200 feet it shows 160 feet and on these analyses there's really no difference that I can see between 160 feet and 200 feet correct, it's very little because the issue is it's not shaded at 3 o'clock which is what's currently specified in the code the issue is it's shaded at 4 o'clock and 5 o'clock ok, so here's my question do we have the
 Do we have a picture for 160 feet versus the 200 at this particular time scenario? There's very little difference on the other scenarios. I'm wondering how significant the difference is on this scenario. We did not do the 4 and 5 o'clock for 160 feet. We just were trying to get at least one version of that done, so we went with 200, which is what was on the table.
 It would be less than what you see, but we don't know the exact percentages. But it would still cast shade? Yes. At that particular hour on that date? Yes. If you look at the analysis that we provided earlier at 3 p.m. on March. Let me get to the right one. Excuse me. September 21st at 3 p.m.
 160 feet does 10%. But we did not do in 200 feet
 does 12%. Okay. So if I could just ask a follow-up question, and I'll cede to Commissioner Fish. In our conversations, you had indicated you created a worst-case scenario on this block. Could you explain what you meant by that? Yes. I believe you all have copies of these sort of massing diagrams. That, where we put the tower on that block, that's,
 is in the southeast corner. So if you're trying to cast shade on something adjacent, south and east are where you're going to have your most impactful shadows. And we put it there because the west side of that block is where the contributing structures are. So when we originally started this analysis, we were trying to think, let's give it height and see how much you can build, protect the park, but also create the opportunity maybe to preserve those structures. Okay.
 You could conceivably, like is proposed on Block 33, push all the height to the west and it would cast less shadows to the west. To the east, sorry. Onto the land zoo. Well, I have two questions, Joe. One, I'm sort of somewhat familiar with this discussion. Yeah.
 in the context of what we did at Bug Clark Commons, because the building could have been on Broadway or on the back side of the lot, and there was a question about where you put it to maximize urban form.
 So putting the return on investment aside for a second, is there a stronger argument to put it on the west side to maintain urban form along that corridor, or is there just as much an argument that it be on the east side now that we have given height increases to the four adjacent blocks? Yeah, Commissioner –
 Putting it on the west side puts it close to places where we've already built tall buildings, so that's responsive to that and sort of mitigates or pushes, lowers the height, which is a problem for us on the parts of the block where its adjacent frontages are shorter. We just adopted design guidelines for Chinatown. I'm not really sure. This is just a massing. This is not a building. I haven't thought about. We haven't examined that in detail. What would happen with the amendment?
 is a building proposed on this site and two other sites would go to the Landmarks Commission in this case because the block is in the historic district.
 The Landmarks Commission would apply those guidelines that we just adopted. The Landmarks Commission would also examine the shadow analysis, which is a standard that exists separately from the design guidelines. At 20%, if a building was going to, at any time during the day, operate,
 It's very, for a 200-foot building, for sure, the Landmarks Commission is going to have to give an adjustment of some sort, probably. We just don't know because we haven't done all the different permutations. And they have the ability to adjust that standard. And what that means is they're going to say it doesn't meet the 20% shading standard, but it does these things that we feel mitigate that somehow.
 And on balance with the other guidelines and things we're trying to accomplish in the district, we can accept this adjustment to 25%, say, for instance. That's the level of adjustment that you're usually talking about. So that's what would happen. And if that was not acceptable as a result to the applicant, it would be appealed and it would come to you all because it would be a type 3 permit and you would all have the same discussion.
 So the one thing it doesn't, like the question we have that is inherent in the proposition that Commissioner Fritz has put on the table is that there's a level of shading on land Sioux Gardens that's acceptable to us, and it's less than 75% at 3 p.m. on those dates. And Commissioner Fritz is proposing it's 20%. But we haven't objectively looked at that one way or the other to say what's the right number. We haven't objectively looked at it to say, okay,
 What's the impact on the development around it? Like how big of a building could you build under that standard? Because in part, we would want to give both the Landmarks Commission and the City Council a sense of what to base your decision down the road on how much shading to allow. What would you base that on? You know, 20 percent, it can't meet, 75 percent is too much, where's the right spot?
 So that work has not been done. But that's the principle that's embedded in Commissioner Fritz's amendment. Mayor. Commissioner Daly. Well, Joe, thank you for that explanation. I'm somewhat relieved that you are not prepared to extrapolate backwards from this restriction and tell us what kind of building we could build because I'm not either, and that would be my number one question.
 I want to make it clear that I'm very committed to protecting the garden. I can't imagine a scenario where city council would be willing to sacrifice such a valuable asset and a community amenity and a cultural landmark. I'm not concerned with the impact on the property owner or developer as much as I'm concerned with
 the Landmarks Commission the flexibility that they need to allow the best scenario possible for the garden and for the adjoining blocks or block. Commissioner, that's why I am not making adjustments prohibited. Joe, can I ask you two questions? Really, the only reason we're having this conversation, I think...
 is that last week, like struck midnight, we extended the height increase to adjacent parcels. And on the diagram we have, and I guess I'm a little confused, what are the parcels that now get the additional height in addition to Menashe? What are the four parcels that are in play? Four parcels. The –
 The shadow analysis applies to properties on the west, the southwest, and the south side of the park you're trying to protect because that's where the shadows come from in our part of the globe. You don't go one block. You don't go one. We don't do the east. We don't do the north. But what are the – can you just tell me off of this diagram that we have? Okay.
 Which are the blocks that we extended the additional height to? Oh, the additional height is just extended to the block with the red tower, Commissioner. And it's the whole block, though. And if you look at page two of your packet. Okay.
 You're going to see a block from 3rd to 5th. It's four blocks there. I'm sorry, I was misunderstanding your question. It's from 3rd to 5th, from Everett to Gleason. Those four blocks get 200 feet.
 The blocks that are adjacent to Lansu, amongst those blocks, the only one that would trigger the shade analysis is the block at 3rd and Everett. And then also, though, if you're looking at that map on page 2, you see that the shading is applied to the southwest corner and to the southern edge of Lansu. We do shade analysis for all of those, too. Those are limited to 100 feet, and we did the analysis and measured.
 it would be hard for them not to pass the standard. So we think that it works for those properties. It's really the third and Everett block that's the issue. And if at some point in the future Mr. Menashe decides to develop his lot, at this point I think he would be perfectly understandable if he just sold the lot and moved to Hawaii. But if he did choose to develop his lot,
 It would likely raise issues at historic landmarks. Those could come to us. Could we at that point, as a condition of approval, modify the shadow analysis? Yes. The same sort of set of considerations on appeal that the Landmarks Commission considered would come to you all. You all would be the judges in that case, like you just were. So we'd have another bite at the apple if we chose to set –
 go with the mayor's amendment and later evaluated, if assuming something came to us on appeal, evaluated that recommendation based on things like shadow analysis. I believe you would. The building would –
 Your grounds for doing it would be a little less, but I believe you would still have the ability to affect the design of the building. See, technically, if it was set to 75% and 3 p.m., those two dates,
 What our analysis shows is that you can design a 200-foot building and it will meet that standard. The 20% standard at any time during the day, it's not going to be able to meet that and you're going to have to give it an adjustment. Is that making sense? Yeah, so the intent is let's preserve the sunlight in our lovely Lansu Chinese Garden in the evenings all summer long.
 Very good. Any further discussion? We have a motion and a second. Sue, please call the roll. No. Saltzman? No. Udaly? No. Fritz? Wheeler? No. The motion fails. Commissioner Saltzman, this is where you take a walk. Oh. Okay.
 Next up, we need to amend the River Place Ordinance to replace one of the maps to ensure that the shadow study amendments that we just adopted remain in place. Rachel, would you like to briefly explain this?
 Yes, this is the amendment that the mayor moved forward previously, and you all voted for we just need to replace one of the maps from the River Place ordinance to make sure it's not undone, the amendment that you just moved. So that's the extent of this. I'm showing the map here. It's maps three of three. Sorry, that's not the right one.
 Let's see. I just want to get to the right slide here. Well, it's map 3 of 3 of map 510-4, and in your packet, that is on page 17. Very good. Do I have a second? Second. We have a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion? Sue, could you please call the roll? Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Wheeler. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, that amendment passes. We'll be back on June 6th to take the final vote on the Central City 2035 plan ordinances and resolutions. That concludes the Central City 2035 matter for today. Next item will be, if we go to the regular agenda.
 Just before you move on. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I'd just like to thank Joe Zender, Rachel Hoy, Sally Edmonds, and Marcus Anis for all your work on this over the last week. I really appreciate it. Also, Brandon Spencer-Hardell and Hilary Adam on the Historic Landmarks Commission. Nice try. Very good. Next up is 556. Item 556. Appoint Bonnie Yee Yosek.
 Katie Holland and Tamara Layden and reappoint Tonya Booker and Ian Jaquis to the Portland Parks Board for terms to expire June 30, 2021. Before we move forward with Commissioner Fritz on this, we have some kids in the chamber. Where are you all from? Jason Lee. Excellent. And what grade? All right. Excellent. Welcome to Portland City Hall. Are you enjoying your tour?
 Awesome. Great. We're glad to have you here. Thank you. Thanks. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I am very happy to introduce this item. I don't know if we have staff or any of our honored guests here. Apparently not. This is to appoint three new members to the Portland Parks Board and to reappoint two. Thank you very much to Judy Bluehoof-Skelton, Kathy Fong-Stevens, and Krista Stout for their service. And they are now term limited out.
 And thank you, Bonnie G. Josek, Katie Holland, and Tamara Layden, for taking on this new and exciting responsibility. I'll just give you a brief bio of each of them.
 Bonnie G. Yosick is an accomplished economic and policy analyst with over 23 years of experience conducting economic, demographic, fiscal and land use analysis for public and private sector clients, including state and local governments, corporations, individual property owners, development organizations and other professional service firms. She started Bonnie G. Yosick LLC, a woman and minority owned business, specializing in economic and policy analysis in 2001.
 She is committed to a range of community service activities. She's currently serving on the board of Portland's Farmers Market as President Emeritus of the Oregon Wellesley Club, former lead volunteer for Beverly Cleary School's Active Transportation Program, and volunteering to foster guide dogs training for Occupors Guide Dog Association.
 Katie Holland is a native of southeast Portland, enrolled member of the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians. Katie has worked with the Siletz Tribe in Portland for over 20 years as their Portland office. Katie has been serving native adults, families, and youth to access services in the areas of education, job training, employment, and cultural programming. Thank you.
 Katie's first love has been working with youth. She has worked with Portland Public Schools, tutoring children in reading as a softball and soccer coach, opened the Siletz Tribe's first Portland Head Start program, and in the last 15 years has worked with numerous native youth programs who serve Native American youth, providing mentorship, guidance, and enrichment programs and activities. She is a graduate of Portland State University and served on Portland State University's Native American Student and Community Center Board.
 And Tamara Layden is a scientist, born and raised in the Pacific Northwest. She is an avid backpacker, hiker, and climber, and investigates every new area. She graduated from Oregon State University with BS in zoology to pursue her passion for the outdoors and the wildlife.
 Since then, she's been building her understanding of the challenges Portland faces, especially as they relate to the connection between the environmental movement and racial equity. As such, she has become more engaged in her community and leadership opportunities that aim to develop her skills as a person of color in her field. She currently works at Reed College as a research assistant in a biology lab and is continually looking for ways to encourage diversity in science, technology, engineering, and math, and the outdoors.
 Very good. These seem like excellent appointees. I'll take that as a motion, Commissioner Fritz. Second. We have a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion? Sue, would you please call the roll? Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. It's truly amazing that great volunteers like this, and also Tonya Booker and Ian Jaquist, who've provided great service, are willing to continue volunteering their time to serve Portland Parks and Recreation. Thank you so much. Aye. Thank you.
 Wheeler. It's a great board. Thank you for your service and thank you for those of you who continue your service. We're greatly appreciative. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Next item 557 is the second reading.
 By 5-7, extend grant agreements by one year and provide additional grant funding not to exceed $350,000 in aggregate with seven organizations providing services to youth in partnership with Portland Parks and Rec. As a second reading, this is an item that's been previously discussed. There's been a presentation and public testimony taken. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 558, also a second reading. 558, amend fee schedules for tree permits. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call item 559.
 559, decade a portion of Southeast Grant Street west of Southeast Water Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Saltzman. I'll turn it over to our staff person for updates or briefing what we need to know. Good morning. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. This is a street vacation initiated by the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry, known as OMSI, which owns the adjacent property. And I believe we may have a map available. If Sue can help me with our PowerPoint. While Sue's working on that, kids, where are you from? We're from Jason Lee. Also from Jason Lee. That's correct. Welcome. Are you enjoying your tour? Sure.
 All right. Well, welcome to Portland City Council. Good morning. Thanks to all the teachers and parent chaperones above and beyond the call of Jesus. Definitely. All right. Well, I can continue with a few comments. So the vacation was initiated to consolidate property since OMSI owns the property adjacent to this little stub of Grant Street. On the map, you can see the yellow highlight sign
 is the little piece of Grant Street that is left over from previous replattings and street vacations. And you can see OMSI to the west there and the new Water Avenue.
 And this is the Tilikum Crossing landing with the MAX station. And then this is the streetcar platform coming down this way. And so OMSI owns this parcel of land. And so vacating that street, to our knowledge, and OMSI's understanding that piece of land will attach to OMSI's land.
 We've not requested the usual comments from city bureaus and other agencies. We didn't receive any objections. OMSI did receive a letter of support from the Hosford-Abernethy neighborhood district last year.
 The Planning and Sustainability Commission reviewed and recommended approval of the proposal in February of this year. The Bureau of Environmental Services did request a sewer tunnel easement over the property. This is a close-up. And then the tunnel easement is over part of the vacation area because the east side big pipe runs north-south through this area. And so BES...
 requires that easement to protect their pipe. The tunnel in this location is 100 feet deep, but still BES wanted the easement over the surface. The tunnel easement has already been negotiated and signed by OMSI and BES, and so it's basically ready to go if the vacation is approved.
 I'm happy to answer any questions. Colleagues? Mr. Fish? I'm just curious, if OMSI intends to develop that property, what is the effect of the BES easement? Does it limit what they can build on top of that portion, or does it just require that the easement be recorded? Okay.
 The easement will be recorded, and honestly, I do not know. You know, normal BES easements restrict construction on top, and since this is so deep, I believe they may allow some surface use of the area. In my recollection, and Commissioner Salzman is probably more of an authority on this, but the Bureau, I think, has attempted to preserve access to the big pipe
 Like if there's some failure or some problem, sometimes they've got to get access from ground level. Then there's the issue about is the ground stable? You've said it's 100 feet down, so that doesn't seem to be an issue. This sounds more like form over substance, acknowledging that there's something underneath but not necessarily impacting the development? No.
 Right. I think OMSI reserves the right to use the property, but BES would need to be known because depending upon what was constructed there, if somebody was going to build a 400-foot tower there, that might impact the tunnel more than a one-level building. And so I think BES will at least need notice about what would be constructed and consult. Presumably they could modify the easement if they concluded that the development did not –
 adversely impact the big pipe. Right. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Any further commentary, any public testimony on this item, Sue? No, excuse me. No one signed up. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Next item, 560.
 560, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements in the Northeast 55th through 57th Avenues and Killingsworth Street Local Improvement District. Commissioner Saltzman. We'll turn it over to Andrew Abbey. Very good. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman.
 So you've seen this local improvement district before, so I don't have a PowerPoint for you this morning. But for the benefit of the mayor who is not with us on April 25th, I just want to note that the major change that we have made is we put forth a new LID proposal that improves not only 57th Avenue but also parallel 55th Avenue to more evenly distribute the local traffic in the neighborhood.
 And we notified the property owners within basically everybody from Killingworth down to Prescott on 57th, what we were doing, as well as around 55th and Emerson. We only got one remonstrance, which I'm recommending that council overrule. And by adopting this ordinance, you will be overruling the remonstrance. It can't go without passing that...
 This discussion with the community daylighted some important issues, and I really appreciate the feedback that I got from the community, and I think one of the takeaways here is that we need to at times look at doing parallel streets or concentrating on a sub-area of Cully as opposed to just doing one street in isolation and then expecting that street to handle the traffic.
 The other thing I just wanted to note with respect to the remunerations is we have brought a lot of FTC funding to this project. And the rate that we're proposing for the property owners when you subtract out the payment for right of way costs is only about 4% above the rate that we offered about 7 years ago for a then PEC subsidized project in Lentz.
 So the reason that the assessments are a little higher is just because we've got some large frontages here. And with that I just have a housekeeping item that I noticed that the Exhibit A that got filed was a draft version, which is the assessment register. We're not proposing to change any of the assessments for the property owners. I emailed through the correct version of the Exhibit A assessment register.
 City attorneys advise that we can amend that based on the electronic copy, and if that meets with the pleasure of the council, if we could adopt that amendment. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Sue, can you call the roll? Fish. Aye. Fossman. Aye. Udallie. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. That's all I have, Mayor. Thank you. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergent. I'm sorry. I should ask if there's any testimony. I apologize. Aye.
 And we did have Danielle Walker has signed up to testify. Very good. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Okay, I just have a few comments. So, hi, my name is Danielle Walker. I am one of the homeowners included in the LID along 57th. I was also the family that did submit the remonstrance. And I'll go into a little bit about why we chose to do that again this time.
 Thanks for the opportunity to address you all again on this really important issue for my family. I also want to thank Mr. Abbey for his patience and collaboration with us over the past six months. This has been a long process for all of us. Andrew and I have spent many hours together on the phone discussing this project, and I have no doubt of his dedication to this work. So, thank you.
 So just to start off, I just wanted to share that we were actually surprised by PBOT's continuation of the development of the LID along 57th, given the level of remonstrance received in our original proposal. If you have not done so already, I would encourage you to read chapters 9-403 and 17.08.060 of the city code for more on that. So...
 Your positions hold enormous power and influence in our lives. Your decision to approve this project will force my family to pay the city $44,000 before any interest is applied. And I just want to note that we've been told that this has the anomaly, that they generally this high. It's because we have a very long frontage of property. But just this morning, we heard another public testimony from someone else who actually had a
 LID being proposed that I think he said was $45,000. So I just, it was eye opening for me to know that this perhaps is not the exception to the rule for these projects. So according to the latest report by the Portland Housing Bureau, the annual median income for a family of four in the Portland area is just over $80,000. For the average Portland home, it
 This means that being forced to take on a debt of over 50% of their annual income. Do you believe forcing this size of debt on a homeowner is reasonable? Do you believe that this aligns with your political platforms of creating affordable living in Portland? For me, the approval of this LID comes with a heavy dose of irony as you spread your social media messages of affordable and equitable living. For the future, I ask... Sorry, I lost my spot.
 For the future, I ask that city consider limits on the amount of money the city can force a homeowner to pay towards these projects. 50% of what a family makes in a year is simply too much to bear, regardless of the loan options that may be offered. I fully acknowledge the positive outcomes of this project. Being a Cully resident myself, I am in full support of improving the safety and connectivity of the Cully neighborhood. I very much believe that everyone involved in this process shares a common goal.
 I also believe, however, that lower cost options that result in an equal level of safety have been wholly ignored in order to meet budget deadlines and political pressures. Project managers at PBOT have shared with us their opinion that lower cost alternatives do exist.
 Given that the City and Habitat are each contributing hundreds of thousands of dollars for this effort, it seems most prudent to explore all alternatives rather than moving forward with the highest cost option. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Any further discussion, colleagues? Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. Thank you, Andrew. Next item, 561. This is the second reading.
 Revise transportation fees, rates, and charges for fiscal year 2018-19 and fix an effective rate. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Zaltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Coordinances adopted. 562, please. 562. Amend code pertaining to private for hire transportation in the city. This is a second reading. Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udallie? Aye. Fritz? I'm very glad that we're making these improvements during this study. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your leadership on this. Thank you to everybody in the community who cares so much about this. And I'm glad that we're going to get the reports back in six months that we're establishing at the board. I think we already did that last week.
 and that we are finally going to get the wheelchair access vehicles going. Thank you very much, Nicole Chiron, for your work on that. And everybody at PBOT, thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 563.
 Article 563, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Home Forward for an annual amount of $640,000. This is City of Portland utility customers that encounter barriers in paying water and sewer services. This is a second reading. Please call the roll. Fish? I just want to repeat a few things I said last week. This is a good day for cost-burdened renters, and I'm proud to be on a council that has worked
 chosen to invest wisely in expanding a nationally known utility assistance program, the benefits of that program to not just homeowners but renters. Colleagues, about three in ten utilities in this country offer some kind of discount program.
 About three or four cities have been working on an approach similar to ours of extending the benefits to people who don't have a meter, and that typically means renters. We know from the data that our city is struggling and that over half of our renters qualify as cost burden. What we have chosen to do is target and prioritize those families most at risk,
 of eviction and therefore most at risk of the spiral downward that follows once you lose your home. This is a modest beginning. It is a program which I hope we can demonstrate its benefits over time and then scale it up. But I also want to acknowledge that a lot of time and thinking has gone into this to come up with a program that is legal, that is cost effective, that does not require creating new bureaucracy, and that targets the benefits to people who need them the most.
 So I'm very proud of the team that brought us here, and I just want to once again acknowledge the work of the Bureau leadership team, Director Stewart and his senior team, Kathy Cook, who is, in my mind, along with Andrew Abbey and a number of people, sort of treasures of our city in terms of the unsung work that they do day in, day out. Liam Frost, that's the last time I will mention his name, but he is, after all, working undercover for us now in the chair's office. Thank you.
 I want to thank the legal team for scrubbing this, our community partners, particularly Home Forward, but many other partners who came together and helped us get it right. I want to thank the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon and the Portland Utility Board, and frankly, all the members of our community who made it clear that we needed to expand our program and helped us find an innovative way of doing so. And finally, I want to thank the auditor.
 In the last few years, we've seen a number of audits that have been issued provide incredibly valuable insights into how to strengthen and improve programs, and this is yet one of many examples. So to the auditor, Hulk Caballero, thank you for your work and your team's work. As I look back on my service on this council, this is one of my proudest days. Like many good things, it took some time.
 and we'll debug it over time. But I hope that we can demonstrate that this is good value for our rate payers and that we can scale this program to serve as many people as we can in a fiscally prudent manner. And, again, today I'm very pleased to vote aye. Saltzman. Well, I want to thank Commissioner Fish for his leadership on this issue. It's been a long time coming, and it's glad that we've.
 I'm really happy with the innovation and effort that we're putting forward here to make an erstwhile start on this. So thank you. Aye. Udailey. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and all the staff who worked on this. I'm running out of steam up here. Sorry. I'm glad that you figured it out because I certainly didn't have any brilliant ideas to offer you. My apologies. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. This has been the very definition of a gnarly issue, and so thank you, Commissioner Fish, for figuring that out with your team. I very much appreciate this approach, and it provides funding for rent assistance, which is then going to get the money to the people who are most in need when paying their...
 all-inclusive bill includes water and sewer charges. So thank you. Hi. By the way, if I could, I'm sorry the elementary kids weren't here for this conversation because we've managed to bring gnarly and erstwhile into the conversation. We could ask the English teacher to actually tell us what erstwhile means, but I think I know it. Today's a young question. We might do better. Wheeler. This is the definition of an issue that is both –
 Really hard to figure out, I'll accept gnarly as the right answer, and thankless in the undertaking. And very important in terms of those who are actually going to be assisted by it. I remember our very first conversation around this, Commissioner Fish, I believe I asked the rookie question, what are other municipalities doing?
 in this area? And the answer was there really wasn't a good template out there. Nobody's really been able to solve this program. And therefore, there probably is no perfect solution to this program, but I applaud Commissioner Fish and I applaud
 the staff for working really, really hard to move the ball forward in a very discernible way. I think this is a huge improvement, and it took a lot of work and a lot of thought and a lot of interaction and engagement to get it to here. And I think it's, frankly, Nick, it's just excellent leadership. Well done. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is a second reading, 564.
 564, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the structural rehabilitation of Taggart Outfall, project number four, an estimated cost of $8 million. Very good. This is the second reading. Any further discussion, please call the roll.
 Bish? Aye. Sossman? Aye. Udalli? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Colleagues, I've had a request that we take up item 545 at this particular time, and that was one that was pulled from the consent agenda.
 Item 545, authorize a five-year price agreement for construction, management, inspection, and project support personnel services for an amount not to exceed $25 million over five years. Good morning, Larry. So I'll tee it up real quick. Mayor and colleagues, this is a procurement report from a competitive solicitation for the Bureau of Environmental Services for construction, management, inspection, and project support personnel services. Thank you.
 I'd like to welcome Larry Pallatt, Procurement Service Manager, to give us a brief presentation. And I guess Scott Gibson is not joining us. Oh, fine. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Commissioners, I am Larry Pallatt. Larry, is your mic on? I'm not convinced it is. The green light's on. Oh, okay. Just pull a little closer. It's not on. There you go. It's not on. Just press the button. It's not on. There you go. It's on? Oh. Yeah. It wasn't on. All right. All right.
 I can see the green line. It's green either way. Yeah, it's confusing. You know, I can do procurement pretty well turning on a microphone stuff. I'm sorry. It happens to the best of us. Starting over. Good morning. I'm Larry Pallatt, procurement manager for Procurement Services.
 You have before you the procurement report recommending four price agreements to be awarded to four firms for a total not-to-exceed amount of $25 million. These price agreements are for a five-year period, will be utilized as the needs are presented, and the specific projects identified in the Portland Bureau of Environmental Services budget process. Just a side note, because it usually comes up, people say $25 million. The money is a not-to-exceed amount, and if it's not required, it will not be spent.
 On December 12, 2017, the Chief Criminal Officer advertised RFP 801, and six proposals were received and opened on January 9, 2018. All proposals were deemed responsive to the requirements, and the proposals were evaluated by evaluation teams with specific areas of expertise. There is one small exception. There wasn't an MEP, a person from the Minority Evaluator Program, involved in this. They attempted with four evaluators.
 Couldn't make the schedules line up, and sometimes that happens. Our minority evaluator community just can't. Schedules don't line up with the business needs of the Bureau. So in this particular case, they requested a waiver. A waiver was granted, but they did make four attempts. So they put a lot of effort into trying to get a minority evaluator. But the evaluation teams were diverse in makeup. They represented different areas from within the Bureau. The city issued a notice of intent to award the price agreements on April 6th. No protests were received.
 This procurement is a continuation of a successful trend in issuing price agreements for greater amounts to lessen the time spent by both the city and the vendors in drafting and responding to multiple solicitations for these types of services.
 The standard methodology requires consultants to propose what their utilization for State of Oregon, certified disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business enterprises. But this has always been somewhat problematic for consultants as there are no defined projects because these price agreements are essentially labor only. They are not project specific. The consultants use their best efforts to hire and submit to the city as diverse as possible a list of qualified candidates to perform the necessary work.
 I believe this is another example of a major bureau of procurement services identifying an issue, developing a solution, and working together to build a process which moves the city forward in furtherance of its goals and increased participation and capacity building.
 All four of the consultants, an interesting sideline, have City of Portland Business Tax Registration Council. They're in compliance with the city's contracting requirements, and based on the expected spend over the next five years, the city's forecasted budget, the confidence level for the dollar value is high. All four firms are State of Oregon certified firms.
 So even though there's not a specific delineation on how much participation, all four firms are certified. So one way or another, all $25 million or whatever portion of it is spent ends up in the certified firm arena. So if the council has any questions regarding the bidding process, I can answer those, or Sarah Culp from BES is here to answer any specific questions. Colleagues, any questions? I'll entertain a motion. I would move adoption of the report. Thank you.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman, a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Court's adopted. Next item, 565. 565. Accept bid of James W. Fowler for the Montevilla South Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $2,974,850. Commissioner Fish? We'll turn it over to Scott Gibson and Larry Pallat.
 Thank you, Mr. Fish. Good morning. My name is Scott Gibson. With me is Larry Platt. He's got to push the mic on, will you? He had the same green light problem I did. I don't feel so bad now. He's an engineer. He's just trying to make you feel better, Larry. Whatever it takes or whatever it takes.
 Good morning. I'm Larry Pallatt, Procurement Manager with Procurement Services. You have before you the Procurement Report recommending a contract award to James W. Fowler for the Montevilla South Sewer Rehabilitation Project in the amount of $2,974,850. The engineer's estimate on this project was $4 million, and the Bureau's confidence level was high. The
 The project was advertised to the city's electronic procurement system. Bids were opened on April 8th. Four bids were received in response. James W. Fowler is the lowest responsive bidder at $2,974,850, which is 25.6% under the engineer's estimate.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services, along with procurement services, had identified an aspirational goal for certified disadvantaged minority women, an emerging small business enterprise subcontractor and supplier utilization of 20%. James W. Fowler, acting as the prime contractor, identified the following areas as opportunities for subcontracting, concrete cutting, boring, drilling and testing, rodent control, flagging, and traffic control, trucking and hauling, as well as cure-in-place pipe installation and paving.
 There is a total of $639,938, or 21.49 percent, of DMW ESB utilization identified towards the goal. And the DM and W subcontractor participation represents 65.55 percent of the total utilization amount, and an ESB supplier participation at 34.45. The area is a part of it.
 If you don't need this stuff, I can skip it if somebody wants to just tell me. But anyway, DMWBE, $419,508 for firms performing concrete cutting, traffic control, boring drilling, and testing, as well as the cure-in-place pipe installation, ESB at $220,000, performing trucking and hauling. James W. Fowler is located in Dallas, Oregon. They are not a state-certified DMWESB contractor. They do have a city of...
 a current City of Portland business tax registration and they're in full compliance with City of Portland contracting requirements. Funds are available for this project under owner cost E-10382. If the council has any questions about the procurement for the project, I can answer those
 Because the contractor met the aspirational participation goals for the project, we have not requested that they be in attendance today. However, Scott Gibson from BES is here to answer any project-specific questions you might have. You're very thorough, Larry. Thank you very much. Commissioner Fritz. So I didn't do an analysis on this. Thank you for your presentation. It seems to me that James W. Fowler Company has been doing better, was not good before, and is doing better. Is that my question?
 They have been. If you go back and look, their percentages have moved from an average in 20 – I did this not that long ago. I think it was 2016 they averaged about 9%, 9, 9.5%. They moved up subsequently to around 15%. The last projects have all been in that 18% to 22%.
 And to be honest, I credit the Bureau as pushing the contractors to perform better and to work harder. And I credit the Procurement Services Compliance staff with making resources available and working with them. And if they don't seem to, they say, oh, I can't find a firm in this area, we'll help them look and find somebody. So I think there's a lot of city effort on this, mostly from the Bureau.
 For the record, colleagues, I did not tell Larry Platt ahead of time that I was going to ask that question. It's even more impressive that he had all those numbers at his fingertips. It is very impressive. It just shows that we keep at it and we keep providing the resources and you keep saying, no, that's not acceptable. Thank you, Scott Gibson, for all your work on this too. Commissioner, can I just add one thing because they've referenced the Bureau team and procurement. My recollection, although
 These days I question my recollection on just about everything, but my recollection is that on a number of occasions when the Fowler team was in the room and when one or more of my colleagues flagged or identified what they thought were numbers that fell below our expectations, that that message was directly communicated to the company. And so I appreciate the fact that from time to time we do that to let –
 trusted partners in the contract industry know that we think they're falling short.
 Did you want to have something to add, Scott? Yes. I wanted to thank the council for their leadership on this issue. I think the clarity and where we want to go on these goals has really helped everybody get behind the effort. And when the contractors do come here and hear what you're dealing with on a day-to-day basis, as far as social justice through everything that you do, I think that they start to realize there's a connection between their work and what they're doing and these bigger issues.
 So I appreciate you all for your leadership. I really do. And the next one you'll see, we also made our targets on our next one. So this group of contractors who has been a good partner to us for many years and has been helping us rebuild our sewers.
 has started to change, and they have embraced these goals and these targets, and they are starting to be better partners for us. Very good. Well, thank you to both the Bureau of Environmental Services and State Procurement Services for your work on this. The city's equity initiative is about jobs, contracts, and services, and BES has such a lot of the city's money through rates and investing it in these major repairs that –
 It's important in every single bureau. Sometimes people think it only matters in some areas of the city or not, and it doesn't. So would you please be sure to tell James W. Fowler that I did notice, and I appreciate their efforts. Commissioner Fish, thank you for your leadership of the utilities in pushing your bureaus, appointing equity managers, because I think it is a matter of there's the will, but we have to help people figure out how to do the way. So thank you very much. We will address a handwritten note.
 To them when we send them the contract this afternoon. So let's make sure that happens. Any further discussion? I'll entertain a motion. Move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Sue, could you please call the roll? Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Next item, 566. 566.
 Good morning. I'm Larry Palat. Hang on just a second. I'm sorry. I was waiting for you. Now we have to do it all over again, Larry. We have to tee it up, too. All over again. 5662. Just get excited. 566, accept bid of Landis & Landis Construction, LLC, for the St. John's Cathedral Park Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $7,115,000.
 One hundred and forty-four dollars. Commissioner Fish. Mayor, I don't know whether Larry Polat and Scott Gibson are here, but if they are, let's let them guide us through the presentation. Gentlemen. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Larry Polat from Procurement Services. You have before you the Procurement Report recommending a contract award to Landis & Landis Construction, LLC, for the St. John's Cathedral Park Sewer Rehab Project for $7,115,144.00.
 The engineer's estimate of the project was $7,740,000. The Bureau's confidence level was high. The project was advertised to the city's electronic procurement system. Bids were opened on March 22, 2018. Four bids were received in response to the solicitation. And Landis & Landis Construction LLC is the lowest responsible bidder at $7,740,000.
 $7,115,144, which is $584,856, or 7.55% under the engineer's estimate. BES and Procurement Services had identified the standard aspirational goal of 20%. Landis and Landis, acting as the prime contractor, identified the following areas of opportunities for subcontracting, concrete cutting, trucking, traffic control, paving, and cure and pay.
 cure-in-place pipe installation. There is a total of $1,570,000, 22.1% disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business subcontractor and supplier participation apportioned as follows.
 DBE disadvantaged, $690,000, three firms performing trucking, traffic control, and saw cutting, a WBE of $450,000 performing cure-in-place pipe installation, and emerging small business at $430,000 with trucking and paving. Landis & Landis is located in Merrillhurst, Oregon. They are an IDA state certified DMW ESB contractor. They do have a current city of
 Portland Business Tax Registration and are in compliance with the City's contracting requirements. If the Council has any questions related to the procurement for this project, I can answer them. Since Landis & Landis, as the prime contractor, met the City's aspirational participation goals, we did not ask them to be in chambers this morning. However, Scott Gibson from VES is here to answer questions about the project, if you have any. Colleagues, any questions? I'll entertain a motion.
 So the report. Second. Commissioner Fritz moves the report. Commissioner Saltzman seconds. Sue, please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Excuse me. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report is accepted based on the eloquent presentation of Scott.
 That's as funny as I get. That's my best material. Next item, 567. Item 567, accept bid of Raymoor Construction LLC for the Cooch Park Play Area Improvements and Loo Project for $1,056,403. Commissioner Fritz. I am very excited to be presenting this and to have this presentation. It's been a long time coming. Thank you to the community for your patience. I'll turn it over to staff.
 Good morning. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. I'll do the front part of this. You have before you the Procurement Report recommending a contract award to Raymoor Construction, LLC, for the Cooch Park Play Area and Loo Project.
 The engineer's estimate of the project was $1,172,019, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate. Bids were opened on April 17, 2018. Three bids were received in response to the solicitation. Raymoor Construction LLC is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $1,056,403, which is $115,616, or 9.86% under the engineer's estimate.
 Portland Parks and Recreation Procurement Services had identified an aspirational goal of 20% DMWESB participation for this project. Raymoor Construction, acting as a prime contractor for this project, identified the following areas for subcontracting opportunities. Trucking, demolition, traffic, playground installation, and landscaping.
 There is a total of $230,338, or 21.8%, of disadvantaged minority women and emerging small business subcontractor participation for this project. The portion is followed. Disadvantaged business enterprise performing trucking demolition and traffic control, $148,338, and an emerging small business at $78,083 performing playground installation.
 Raymoor Construction LLC is a state-certified MBE contractor and a participant in the city's prime contractor development program, which makes total disadvantaged minority women and ESB participation in this project, including the prime contractor, at nearly 100% of the hard construction costs. Raymoor Construction LLC is in compliance with the city's requirements for contracting.
 If the council has any questions regarding the bidding process, I can answer those. Since the contractor has met the city's aspirational goals, we did not ask them to be in attendance today. And we have two representatives from Portland Parks and Recreation here to answer specific questions. Well, we'd like to give a short presentation about the project. Thank you, Commissioners.
 Hello, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Robin Laughlin. I am the Bond Project Team Lead with Portland Parks and Recreation. With me today is Gary Datka, our Capital Project Manager representing the Bureau in this project. We're here today to support Larry's request for Council to accept the bid for rainwater construction for Cooch Park Playground and replacement, as well as the associated loo project at this park.
 The Cooch Park Project is part of the 2014 Parks Replacement Bond Program that is generously passed by voters to approve a $68 million bond measure to fix and repair our most critical needs in our parks without increasing our tax rates. As you know, the bond fund goes towards parks' most urgent needs in seven priority areas, playgrounds, trails and bridges, pools, accessibility, protecting workers, Pioneer Courthouse Square, and restrooms and other facilities.
 This project fits into two of our focused areas, playgrounds and restrooms, and it will be the fourth parks replacement program to cover playgrounds in our system going into construction this year. With that, Gary will share some of the details of the project.
 Thank you, Robin. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, my name is Gary Dotcom, a landscape architect and project manager for Portland Parks and Rec. I'm very excited to bring this project to you today to present it. Cooch Park is a three-acre park located in northwest Portland between northwest Gleason and northwest Hoyt and northwest 19th and northwest 20th.
 The project area is shown on the image above and is focused on the west end of the park adjacent to Portland Public Schools Metropolitan Learning Center and focuses on the existing playground and brick plaza. The playground and plaza provide a much-needed urban green space and play area for this neighborhood and also serve to support the MLC's outdoor play spaces during the school day.
 Cooch Park today and of the past shows a very heavily used park, one that many generations hold dear to their hearts. In the early 1990s, as you can see in the image in the top right, we installed a well-loved wood fort play structure that became an icon for the park. Unfortunately, this structure, with its many steps and levels, was not accessible to all park users today.
 Over the years, the structure fell into disrepair and has been removed for safety reasons. Prior to its removal, Parks did install a smaller piece of play equipment, but the playground as a whole lacked many of the play opportunities we look to provide for all of our users in our parks and playgrounds.
 The adjacent expansive brick plaza with its heaved and shifted bricks from tree roots and time create a number of ADA accessibility deficiencies that are identified in our park's ADA transition plan that provide barriers to all users, a number of safety hazards, and long-term maintenance difficulties. Additionally, it does not provide adequate seating for picnicking opportunities and community spaces.
 The restroom that's also shown in the lower image, the small green building, has its own number of ADA deficiencies and creates a number of safety and visibility issues for all users.
 Our project has a number of goals. The playground renovation and loop project was one of the first bond projects started in 2015 and conducted extensive public outreach through a series of neighborhood meetings to engage with the Metropolitan Learning Center students, friends of Cooch Park, and the neighbors in the Northwest District Association to understand how each group uses the park and gain a positive community support for the renovations.
 In partnership with Harper's Playground for additional project funding of $350,000, as well as a Metro Nature and Neighborhoods grant for $150,000, we were able to design a fully inclusive and accessible play area for all users and caregivers to have an equal opportunity to play at a safe and imaginative setting.
 The new playground includes a new wood fort play structure with slides, climbers, and a lookout mound without the need for stairs or handrails. It provides many other inclusive play structures and features, individual group swings, music, and sensorial elements. Separate areas for social play and quiet play suitable for all kids are also included in the play area.
 As with all of our bond projects, durable rubber and synthetic turf surfacings are included in this project for long-term maintenance.
 The new plaza will include a decorative concrete paving that is better suited to heavy traffic and long-term maintenance the park needs. We will include a number of stormwater planters to minimize our impacts on utility infrastructure, new accessible picnic tables, benches, and bike racks to support community needs. We will also be installing a Portland loo, which will replace the public restroom that is currently in the park. The restroom will remain for events and PPR staff to use.
 This project does hope to begin as soon as possible following the MLC's school year and contracting, and we're anticipating starting in July. The construction is anticipated to take about eight months and will take us through the winter of 2018, early 2019. With that, I'd like to turn it back over to Larry and have to provide an over, well, you've already given the overview. So, ask you for your support and acceptance of the bid for Raymar Construction.
 Very good. Colleagues, any further comments? Commissioner Saltzman? I would move the adoption of the report. Second. Commissioner Saltzman moves the report. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Any further discussion? Great presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll, Sue. Fish. Well, it looks like a beautifully designed playground and a great addition to that park. So thank you for your good work. Bye. Saltzman. Thank you.
 Yes, this one's been a long time in the making, so it's good to see it finally happening. Hi. Fritz? I still sometimes have nightmares about going to the PTA at Multnomah Metropolitan Living Centre and telling them, yes, we've fenced off your structure and no, we don't have any money to replace it. And the aghast looks on everybody's faces. And that's the reality of what is in Portland Parks and Recreation today. We have a lot of ageing infrastructure that we don't have the funds...
 The city does not have the funds to fix. And so over the next six months, the Bureau will be leading a conversation about what do we have and what do we want to pay for and how do we want to pay for it. So thank you for your work with this very important bond measure. Thank you to Cody Goldberg of Harper's Playground. This is another advance in accessible playgrounds across the city. Thank you.
 project that we've done under the bond measure has included some accessibility features and I'm very proud of that. I'm also very proud of the largest expansion of restroom facilities in the history of Portland Parks and Recreation. When I'm gone you can put my name on a loo and I'll be very happy. Thank you very much for your work.
 I think this is a fantastic vision, and I appreciate all the hard work that's gone into it. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for your longstanding leadership on this. This is a high-volume park. It's used by a lot of people, and I think this will be very, very well received by the community at large, and I believe it will be a community asset that we can all be proud of. I vote aye. The report's accepted.
 We have a couple of second readings in a row here. 568 next. 568, approve fiscal year 2018-19 cost of living adjustments to pay for rates for nonrepresented classifications and elected officials. Specify the effect upon employees and the classifications involved and provide for payment. Second reading. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next, item 569, also a second reading. 569, revise secondhand dealer regulations to accept consular ID cards as identification, add gift cards as regulated property, and other housekeeping changes. This is a second reading. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Zausman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next, item 570. Aye.
 570, extend contract with Schneider Electric Systems, USA, Inc. for the supervisory control and data acquisition system upgrade and increase compensation amount in the amount of $826,335. Commissioner Fish.
 Mayor and colleagues, this contract amendment is for the Portland Water Bureau to upgrade their existing software that allows Water Bureau operators to make adjustments to our drinking water infrastructure, such as adjusting valves and turning pumps on and off. The upgrade is also necessary to continue to receive security patches that prevent cyber attacks. Here with us today are Mike Stewart, Portland Water Bureau Director, and Chris Wanner, Water Group Manager for the Portland Water Bureau. Gentlemen, please.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Supervisory control and data acquisition, I'm not sure that's really any clearer than SCADA. It is, however, a very important item in operating the Water Bureau. What we're looking to do today is two things. We need to extend the term of the contract to December 2019. Okay.
 And second, in this amendment, authorize the expenditure of $817,696. We're doing another thing that's important in this particular contract. In the past, we have done the O&M as one contract and the system upgrades as a separate contract.
 at the suggestion of Mr. Palat, whom I should have invited to stay, and BTS, we've decided to combine them into one contract and spread the cost over the time period. This thing will be building upgrades into our O&M system, and the upgrades needed on this are to run on the Microsoft server. It is a separate computer system, but it has to run on the existing servers. Okay.
 so we need upgrades to keep up with the city's upgrades of the servers. We need to be able to comply with Windows 10, because this thing runs in the background, and we use Windows 10 and so on for it to operate. There's a variety of upgrades to the SCADA system contract itself. We've been using this system for about 30 years in various names. Last name was Telvent.
 They were bought by Schneider Electric, and hence you see the name, but it's the same computer system that we have always had. We have a whole bunch of security patches that go on. This is very, very frequent. You don't see this stuff, but we see a lot of stuff from UASI about various cyber attacks in water systems, and we try and stay ahead of those.
 Besides the upgrade aspect, this thing is also our own contract for the tail vent system. They've been with us, as I said, almost 30 years. Their engineers have extensive experience with our system, both the operating system, the tanks, and so on, and provide 24-7 support.
 Why this is so important is in a lot of our valves and machinery and so on, we have PLCs, programmable logic controllers, and the SCADA system talks to those, gives the instructions out for raising and lowering tanks and so on. It also communicates with the remote terminal units, RTUs, that we use to actually operate the system in various locations.
 We have stuck with this system because it's approved. It's kind of a sole source system, and it's one of those things that's approved by both procurement and the chief technology officer. That is about what I can tell you. Chris may have more wonky things. He can answer your questions. Mike or Chris, I have a question. On Friday, when we detected a small leak in one of our conduits,
 Was that a sensor that went off that then showed up on our computers, or is that an example of something where technology helps us identify problems? So current technology would not pick up something like that, although as technology advances, we're constantly looking at systems that may detect those types of anomalies in our system. That was actually picked up by one of our colleagues at Gresham, at work for the city of Gresham.
 They noticed the water in the street. They saw the water in the street? Yeah. Mayor, this is just kind of a coincidence, but shortly after the news flash last Friday about the terrible events that occurred at Portland State University, we got word that there was a small leak in one of our conduits. You know, in moments like that when you're not quite sure what's happening in one place and you start to think, is there any potential connection? And, and,
 are these related events or coincidental? Mike's team jumped on it and was able to do a site inspection and determine that, in fact, these are completely unrelated. This was just sort of an anomaly. And one of the things that was, I guess, one of the things that was comforting was to learn that the pipe that had the leak was actually buried pretty deep, so it would have been extraordinary for someone to be able to...
 actually cause that leak, but you never know. And, you know, it was just an example of a heightened state of alert that occurred once the newsflash went out about what happened at the urban center.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item, Sue? No one signed up. Great. Good presentation. Thank you for making that understandable to me, even. So that was great. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, colleagues, we have a four-fifths agenda item. If you could read the four-fifths item, 570-1. Okay.
 570-1, authorize city attorney to appear as amicus curiae on an amicus brief to be filed in support of the National Fair Housing Alliance in the case of National Fair Housing Alliance et al. v. Carson. Seeking a preliminary injunction requiring the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to
 to immediately rescind its order suspending the requirements of the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Rule. Very good. Shannon, are you kicking us off today? Sure. Very good. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, and thank you for considering this item on an emergency basis on 4-5th.
 As was indicated in the title, this would be for the city to join in an amicus brief to ensure an injunction against the recension of a very important fair housing rule. As you know, last month we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act,
 But it was not until 2015 that an actual rule to make sure that we were meeting the requirements of the Affirmative Fair Housing Act was put into place under the Obama administration, requiring that local governments not just evaluate the needs in their community in regards to fair housing, but actually submit detailed and concrete plans.
 The Trump administration has proposed with Secretary Carson to repeal that rule, and a number of jurisdictions across the nation are seeking an injunction, as we mentioned, to keep that rule in place. With that, I would turn it over to our city attorney who's worked and is working on this, Lisa Gramp. Lisa Gramp, Deputy City Attorney.
 So the rule would be suspended, just as a point of clarification. In January, Ben Carson suspended the rule, and we would be signing on to an amicus brief that has been drafted by the state of Maryland along with other state and local jurisdictions in support of the Fair Housing Alliance's suit against HUD and Ben Carson, well, Ben Carson in his capacity as HUD secretary. Okay.
 Very good. Colleagues, any questions on this particular item? Any public testimony on this item? Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you for bringing this forward. Aye. Saltzman. Udaly. Very pleased that we're signing on to this. It's unfortunate how much of our time and resources we have to devote to protecting our community members from our own federal government. This is apparently the reality we live in now. So thank you. Aye.
 Fritz? I'm starting to lose count of the number of times we're having to sue the federal government and that's so discouraging but thank you for not being discouraged, thank you for being lawyers and the interim housing director Shannon Callaghan thank you for your work, standing up for people who can't stand up and don't have a voice and that's what the city is required to do in this situation is to be the voice of those who are discriminated against by this ruling. Thank you. Wheeler? Thank you.
 Glad to vote aye. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Last item, colleagues, was pulled from the consent agenda, item 547. 547, amend mortgage birthage agreement with Mike Allen for lease of birth space at the Columbia Point Yacht Club through May 31, 2019 at an annual cost of $3,600 for mortgage of Portland Fire and Rescue vessel boat. Fire vote 17th.
 Colleagues, PF&R operates three marine vessels at Station 17, located on Hayden Island, where it responds to both land and marine emergencies on the Columbia River. Rescue Boat 17 and Fireboat 17 are moored at the Columbia Point Yacht Club. Another reserve fireboat is moored at Columbia Crossings Marina.
 Portland Fire and Rescue currently leases a private boat slip at Columbia Point Yacht Club for fire boat number 17. The current lease agreement expires on May 31, 2018, and an amendment is required to extend the lease agreement for another year. This ordinance authorizes the current lease extension and provides authorization for future lease extensions. Welcome. Commissioner Fritz, I'm sorry. Do we know who pulled this?
 Lightning. So he's no longer here. And this is such a routine item. I'm so sorry that you've had to sit here for the entire day. If you'd like to go ahead and give your presentation, you can.
 I have no idea why this is pulled. Do you have any questions about the fire boat? We need the fire boat. We need a place to put the fire boat. May 31st to my calendar is May 30th, which means if we need to extend the lease, we have to do it by tomorrow. That is why this is here on an emergency basis and, therefore, why it was put on the consent agenda. It is a routine lease extension. Any public testimony on this item?
 Let's honor these people by getting them out of here as quickly as we can. Sue, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. I just can't imagine why anybody would waste everybody's time to pull this for an annual cost of $3,600. Can you imagine how, well, I know how much it would be to build a house to put this fire boat in. It would be astronomical. This is such a good deal. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. I would still like to have the negotiation leveraged. $3,600? Are you kidding me? This once. This once. I will vote for it. I vote aye. Ordinance is adopted. Thank you all for your time. Just a quick comment. The fire bureau is here every council session, apparently. Somebody from the fire bureau is always in attendance. So...
 Is that correct? Yeah, in case they pull us out, we'll be here. They're here every council session. That's great for us. I know our meetings get hot sometimes, but I'm just wondering what's up. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are adjourned until 2 p.m. They're always here in case somebody gets something. Dad jokes.
 Two separate items. The first is a report. The second item is an ordinance. Sue, could you read them together, 571 and 572, please? 571, transmit East Portland Action Plan 2018 annual presentation. 572.
 Authorize $169,491 total in grant funds for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement East Portland Action Plan 2018 grant program and municipal partnership. Very good. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor.
 Hello, everybody. The East Portland Action Plan was created to provide leadership and guidance to public agencies and other entities on how to strategically address community-identified issues and allocate resources to improve livability and prevent displacement in East Portland. Today's presentation is the annual report to Council on the progress made toward EPAP's strategic goals. With that, I will hand it off to Katie Larcelle and John Mulvey. Thank you.
 I hope. Are they here? John's here. Oh, okay. Well, that's what my notes say. So we'll skip that page and go straight to run of show. Is Karen Fisher Gray here? There she is. Welcome. Good afternoon, Nick. Good afternoon. Good to see you. Good afternoon. It's so nice to see you all.
 So good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. My name is Karen Fisher Gray, and I am the superintendent of the Park Row School District. I have been the superintendent of the Park Row School District since 2007, and on June 18th, I will become the superintendent of the Lincoln County School District. Thank you.
 It is my distinct honor to serve as the chair for the Oregon Educator Equity Advisory Group, an action group created by the Chief Education Office of the Governor. I am also an original member of the East Portland Action Plan Committee and have been a strong advocate of all things East Portland. I was a Planning and Sustainability Commissioner under two mayors, and it remains one of my proudest positions as a community member of the City of Portland. Thank you, sir.
 I am also the 2018 Oregon Superintendent of the Year. The East Portland Action Plan has more than 260 action elements that include a strong emphasis on the development of infrastructure, transportation, housing, and economic development.
 We are working very hard to accomplish each and every one of these goals so that we can effectively create and improve healthy, connected neighborhoods and increased positive livability in East Portland. To that end, I would like to bring...
 To your esteemed attention, the concepts of our 2017-18 strategic priorities, our involuntary displacement prevention recommendations, and our analysis of eight years of budget mapping. You have copies of the documents that support the aforementioned concepts. And now I would like to point out some of the highlights that will be discussed in more detail later on in our presentation. Thank you.
 First off, the East Portland Action Plan strategic priorities. And I am simply going to read them, so I think they're important enough for us to hear. Set a goal that East Portland attains parity with other parts of the city in public facilities and capital spending. Institutionalize graphic mapping of city spending. Develop a quadrant plan for East Portland. Thank you.
 Fund EPAP advocacy until the action plan is implemented. Engage ethnic communities in neighborhood activities. Establish racially and ethnically representative community oversight of community health worker programs. Fully fund the East Portland in motion. Fund the Outer Powell Conceptual Design Plan. Prioritize East Portland pedestrian projects. Connect East Portland residents to family wage employment.
 Maximize East Portland's economic benefits from public projects. Promote catalyst workforce development projects in East Portland. Establish the Gateway Education Economic Development Center. Establish policy and practice that balances regional affordable and American Disabilities Act accessible housing supply. Increase opportunities for sustainable moderate income and minority home ownership.
 Fund a housing rehabilitation program. Implement existing park master plans. Connect lava dome areas to begin Forest Park East Trail. And finally, complete planning and design work for the Gateway Green Park project. Second, I would like to mention to the mayor and commissioners about the involuntary displacement prevention recommendations.
 The hallmark of these recommendations is civic engagement, and there is an entire process outlined that we would like to see the city follow as part of our community engagement work with East Portland. And so the recommendations to be implemented, and these are not in any prioritized order, are support East Portland Action Plan civic engagement grants, living wage provisions supported, local hiring, support,
 Minority contracting. Commercial stabilization and commercial rent stabilization. Community reinvestment act involvement. Commercial transit oriented development. Owner occupied ownership. Rent stabilization. Just cause eviction. Broadening home ownership and cooperative ownership. And inclusionary zoning, which we now have. Housing acquisition rehabilitation.
 No net loss affordable housing preservation ordinance. Community benefits agreements, which are very important to the work that we do for East Portland.
 Anti-displacement impact analysis. These are all headings of the strategy around anti-displacement procedures. They all have lots of definition under them, but we don't have time to talk about them all now. They're all important. And we also tried to build those into the comprehensive plan. They're all over the comprehensive plan and really worth noting. Okay.
 The final thing for me to say in my introductory comments are about the eight-year budget mapping analysis project, which you're going to hear more about from Nick Sauve in just a moment. But one thing that we wanted to point out that was really important is that
 And because of the partnership between East Portland Action Plan and the city, over the last eight years, $267 million more have been increased to the work that we're doing in East Portland. And that's not small change. And we want you to know how much we appreciate that. And the fact that we have kind of, in effect, treasured what we've measured here around how we spend things across the city is important. Thank you.
 So the City of Portland geographic budget mapping work demonstrates the importance of our partnership. There is so much more that needs to be done in this part of our great city, and I sincerely hope that the work that we do together continues with enthusiasm.
 Our next speakers are Nick Savi to speak with you more about the eight-year budget mapping project analysis and Natalie Areola to bring you the civic engagement subcommittee report. Thank you. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'm Nick Sovey. I'm the director of Rose Community Development. I'm on the EPAP housing subcommittee. And actually, I was one of the people appointed to the original EPAP by then-Chair Wheeler and Mayor Potter. And I've got a PowerPoint. I'm trusting somebody will do the technology there.
 To start, I'd like to thank City Council and the City Budget Office for their ongoing support for budget mapping. This is a valuable tool for transparency, decision-making, and advancing equity.
 To my knowledge, Portland is the only city in the U.S. that does this kind of mapping. This is a national model. I'm sorry to interrupt. Sure. We're very low-tech here. So in order to – you have to poke an arrow to make the slides go, just so you know. Great. Okay. Thank you. So it's sort of like a one-man band. Sorry about that. Oh, no. Not at all. Thanks for getting me in the loop. Okay.
 So some background that budget mapping was born out of the Great Recession. President Obama's stimulus legislation required jurisdictions to post on their websites the locations of projects funded by the federal stimulus. When I looked up the projects, I found that only 1% of the geographically targeted funds were going to East Portland areas.
 East Portland has more than 25% of the city's population and 40% of the school children, but was only getting 1% of these federal funds. This taught EPAP two things, that we measure what matters, and East Portland needed to speak up so we could get our projects in the pipeline.
 In 2011, Mayor Adams directed city bureaus to develop budget maps by district. This map shows both dollar investment and per capita investment. Per capita is measured per user, which is population plus jobs.
 In addition to investment, the bureaus also provide level of service maps. EPAP tracks performance of three key quality-of-life bureaus, housing, parks, and transportation. First, we'll look at housing. After four years of declining investment, Portland Housing Bureau has stepped up its game over the last two years. The 2018 total of $30.9 million is more than double what PHB produced in 2012.
 Now let's look at PHB's per capita performance. The red line equals 100%. If East Portland was getting its fair share, the black line would be at 100%. Despite the increased investment in 2017 and 2018, PHB has never attained a fair share of housing investment in East Portland.
 EPAP wants its share of bond funding and new sources of funding for housing and services to prevent displacement of people of color and low-income residents in their neighborhoods. Here are the comparable charts for Portland Parks and Recreation. Parks is the star of our show. EPAP is grateful to Commissioner Fritz and before her, Commissioner Fitz, for their commitment to equity in East Portland.
 Parks investment increased from $13.6 million in 2011 to $35.9 million in 2018. Even more importantly, parks investment has exceeded fair share level for each of the last four years. As we know, equal is not the same as equity. Disinvested communities should get more resources until they catch up with more favored communities.
 Finally is transportation. Transportation dollars have more than tripled from $15.5 million in 2011 to $57.7 million in 2018. This includes significant investment in East Portland and motion projects as well as safety improvements from the local gas tax.
 I remember going back to the earliest EPAP meetings that improvements to Powell Boulevard has always been a top priority, and EPAP is thrilled to see those improvements starting to happen. Here we see that in 2018, for the first time, PBOT investment in East Portland exceeds the city per capita average. We'd like to see this trend continue.
 Add these totals together and you see that housing, parks, and transportation funding for East Portland has increased by $267 million since 2011. This is significant, game-changing investment. Thank you again to City Council and to the bureaus. Your commitment is appreciated. Thank you.
 Please be aware, however, that the risks that come with increased investment. EPAP's goal is revitalization without displacement of people of color and low-income residents. Here's a map produced by Dr. Lisa Bates at PSU that shows gentrification and displacement patterns. You see from 2000 to 2010, East Portland largely does not register on the map.
 This is the latest map. Almost the entirety of East Portland is lit up in various stages of gentrification. EPAP hopes you will continue your good work in directing investment our way. We also hope that you'll take much stronger measures toward programs and policies that will generate equitable neighborhoods throughout Portland and economic opportunities for East Portland and people of color and low-income residents. Thank you. Thank you, Nick. Well done. Good afternoon.
 Mayor Ted Wheeler, City Commissioners. My name is Natalia Reola with the Programma Hispano-Catholico, and I am part of the Civic Engagement Committee. I'm here to share some of our successes this year. I'm proud to say that the Civic Engagement Committee was able to advocate for the Multnomah County Capacitation Center program to help held a community health worker training that was in Arabic language and culturally specific. And I'm here to share some of the successes this year.
 That was held for community health worker trainings. This fiscal year, we were also... Sorry, fiscal year of 2017-2018, we were also able to successfully advocate for ONI to get $100,000 for translation, interpretation, and child care accommodation funds. The civic engagement committee this year was also able to advocate for...
 For the city's support for sanctuary by providing legal aid services, and the mayor, thankfully, allocated $500,000 in the fiscal year of 2018 and 2019 budget.
 Along with our successes, we did have some setbacks this year. We were unable to get overhead funding, the 0.5% overhead funding into the mayor's budget for fiscal year of 2017-2018, which was something that we were really looking forward to. However, there was...
 We did have an example of a situation that happened at a David Douglas budget hearing where at Division Midway Alliance, asked for a Burmese interpreter for the city's budget hearing with a two-day notice, and the city wasn't able to accommodate that request. So it's examples like these where interpreters weren't available to bring those voices of historically oppressed communities.
 two budget hearings, like the one at the Division Midway at W. Douglas, that we would like to continue pushing for the city to bring in overhead funding to part of the fiscal budget.
 While we have been making great strides, we still look forward to continue working on obtaining that overhead funding in the near future. I want to thank you for your time and for your help. I'm going to go ahead and introduce Katie Kanin, Katie Larcell, and John Mulvey. Thank you. Very good. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi. Hi.
 My name is Kate Kanin, and I am the Economic Opportunity Coordinator for Historic Park Rows, as well as the Chair of East Portland Action Plan's Economic Development Subcommittee. And I am here to report on our successful advocacy around our strategic priorities. One strategic priority is to maximize East Portland's economic benefits from public projects.
 And on that, we have done advocacy around the Community Equity and Inclusion Plan, along with the Metropolitan Alliance for Workforce Equity. And our advocacy made the Community Equity and Inclusion Plan more robust, including compliance for tracking and fees for noncompliance.
 And we look forward to continuing this conversation as the CEIP comes up for renewal annually. We will continue to advocate for signatory page provisions for local hiring and local spending, as well as to lower the threshold for workforce participation requirements. Our second strategic priority is to establish the Gateway Education and Economic Development Center.
 and our advocacy has built momentum around that and pushed that conversation forward. Katie Larcella is going to speak a little bit more about that in her presentation. We've also done advocacy around the Community Reinvestment Act. We have partnered with the National Community Reinvestment Coalition,
 in hopes of leveraging local Community Reinvestment Act funds to support the Gateway Education and Economic Development Center.
 Thirdly, our strategic priority is to promote catalyst workforce development projects in East Portland to partner with the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiatives and other urban renewal and economic development efforts to bring living wage jobs to East Portland. And on that, we are pleased to say that the Workforce Navigator Program with the East Portland NPIs is a success.
 For example, in nine months in 2017, Natalie, the workforce navigator for Division Midway Alliance and the Jade District signed up 365 people to the program and approximately 24% of them have received employment. And this program shows promise for expansion to other East Portland Neighborhood Prosperity Initiatives.
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. And if I could just reflect for one moment on the CEIP and your engagement in that.
 That was a very, very difficult rock to roll up the hill. And I want to thank you personally, and I want to thank your entire group for helping shape the CEIP. I think it's a really important step forward. But as you just acknowledged, it's going to be fluid, and it's going to be a document that evolves with time. And I'm really appreciative that you're continuing to engage on that. So thank you very much for that. Thank you. Because it was hard work. Thank you.
 Hi, Katie. Hello. Are you finished? Yep. Yeah. Well, greetings, commissioners. I'm the Reverend Katie Larcell, and as you may know, I've been a member of the EPAP since the very beginning, and I now serve on the Planning and Sustainability Commission for the City of Portland. And I try to look out for East Portland interests on the commission.
 It's a pleasure to be up here and reporting to you about this productive year for EPAP. And today I'm representing the Operations Committee, and it's a committee that often takes the larger view. We focus on how we govern ourselves and on projects that are bigger than any one subcommittee.
 And so because of that, I'm going to update you on a couple of the bigger projects, the Gateway Education and Economic Development Center and the East Portland Quadrant Plan. And Kate spoke a lot about the Gateway Education and Economic Development Center. So, you know, I think I'm going to shorten my remarks up just a little bit. You've heard a lot about it. I think the one thing that you may not have heard is that –
 Mayor Ted Wheeler is having us after this meeting. He's convening a meeting to bring stakeholders together around that project. It's a meeting that's really been needed, and I just want to thank you for that, Mayor Wheeler. And I think it's – I'm very much looking forward to it. So let me just talk a little bit about the East Portland Quadrant Plan.
 That's kind of an unfortunate name, but the reason why we keep calling it that is because we want to emphasize how important it is. And because the quadrant plans for the center of the city got a lot of attention in planning hours. And we want that sort of plan for East Portland. Right now...
 And there's a couple of big plans going through planning the sustainability, the residential infill project and better housing by design. You probably have heard about these plans. And it's going to be changing the face of Portland. So what we want is a plan that looks at East Portland and answers the following questions.
 How can we grow middle-income jobs in East Portland? How can we provide good quality, reasonably priced housing? And how can we provide reasonable transit to jobs outside of East Portland for East Portland residents? And how can we do that without displacing those who live here now?
 So this is something that we feel is very timely. You just saw that map, and I'm sure you all kind of... Well, you may have already seen it, the map of a displacement in East Portland. But every time I see it, I kind of gasp. And so I think that this is a time for this kind of a plan. The time is now. And we were...
 I'll say I was disappointed that that money was not in the budget to begin this plan. However, we heard through Kyle Cizek that there was perhaps money available from somewhere else. And if that's the case, then I'd be very happy to hear more about that. Very good. Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon. And thank you for listening to us today and for your support for EPAP.
 I'm John Mulvey and I am a co-chair of EPAP's Housing Subcommittee. East Portland continues to feel the harsh effects of our housing crisis. We have more vulnerable renters than the rest of the city, as well as the fastest rising rents in the city. We are more likely to move than other Portlanders, and we're home to 40% of Portland's children.
 we are the least likely Portlanders to have seen our incomes rise in recent years. Preventing housing displacement, stabilizing low-income families, improving our area's substandard housing stock, and ensuring adequate and equitable public funding to correct historic disinvestment are core goals of your East Portland Action Plan. So you can imagine this has been a busy year for housing at EPAP.
 This time last year, our committee was considering next steps after the disappointing failure of state legislation that would have ended no-cause evictions and unconscionable rent increases in Oregon. That bill, a City of Portland legislative priority, failed in the state Senate. Two weeks ago, my neighbors in East Portland voted for a change in the state Senate.
 We expect to see legislation in 2019 that will finally give our renters the stability they need. And I hope you'll be ready to do your part by passing a tenant protection ordinance on the first day that the state grants you that authority. Another city legislative priority was HJR 201, which is a state constitutional amendment that's been referred to November's ballot.
 It will repeal a 100-year-old provision that limits the ability of the city to stretch its affordable housing dollars further. We spoke to our legislators, submitted testimony in support, and sent committee members to hearings in Salem to help secure passage of the bill. We will continue to advocate for its passage by voters this fall.
 A core priority of the East Portland Action Plan is addressing the dire condition of some of East Portland's private rental housing. We've heard repeatedly that low-income renters are afraid to complain about leaky roofs, mold, and non-working appliances. For two years, we've worked with the Housing Bureau to develop a program to address this problem. In this, the second year of program funding, the results have not been what any of us would have liked.
 We've met with Bureau staff on multiple occasions, exchanged numerous written communications, and had many informal conversations in an effort to find a path forward to address this still unmet need. While we did not oppose the Bureau's request to reprogram this year's rental rehabilitation funds to other priorities, we're not giving up on our commitment to East Portland's families who are living in substandard conditions.
 With the City's ongoing efforts to identify and register all of Portland's rental homes, we look forward to an environment in which next year's funds can be successfully used for their original intent.
 Another project that we spent considerable time on was the implementation of Portland's historic housing bond. My co-chair, Frida Christopher, was a member of the committee that created the framework for spending those bond dollars, and our committee gave detailed comments at multiple points in the framework's development. We're anxiously awaiting an announcement on the first bond purchases in East Portland. Thank you.
 Our committee also spent a considerable amount of time working with city staff, allied groups and community members to protect residents of mobile home parks. These efforts have included outreach to mobile home park residents and meeting with staff from the Housing Bureau, BPS and the Mayor's Office.
 In the coming months, new protections for mobile home park residents will be heard by the Planning and Sustainability Commission and then this Council. EPAP will continue its advocacy for strong mobile home park protections as this process moves along.
 Our Housing Subcommittee has also partnered closely with EPAP's Transportation and Economic Development teams to advocate for infrastructure investments that develop East Portland to its potential while protecting our most vulnerable community members.
 At David Douglas High School in November 2017, Mayor Wheeler, you told us, quote, You're absolutely right to demand that transportation, planning, and housing all be worked together. There's no such thing as a pure transportation plan anymore. We have to talk about housing. We have to talk about displacement. Right?
 We agree, and we will continue to press for meaningful anti-displacement measures to be a core element of all major infrastructure investments. We worked to pass HB 4007, which increased Oregon's document recording fee. That fund will support homeownership opportunities and permanently affordable homes for low-income people and veterans, and will bring millions to Portland to help transition homeless people off the streets.
 We've been close partners with BPS in developing the Better Housing by Design code amendments that you'll consider next month, and we're happy to say that several EPAP suggestions are part of the Bureau's recommendation. We've pressed Multnomah County to include a robust component of permanently affordable homes in their future plans for the Hanson property.
 We've also been involved in the creation of the state's five-year housing plan. It's critical that state decision makers understand the unique housing picture in East Portland and that East Portland is able to access new state funds. We submitted detailed comments to DHCS and are currently awaiting their draft plan.
 We've argued for robust community benefit agreements on public projects in East Portland. We've advocated for increased transparency and accountability at Prosper Portland. And we've always been a constant presence in the fight for the equitable allocation of resources for East Portland. So yes, we've been very busy working.
 As your designated forum for volunteer community engagement in East Portland, EPAP will continue to press at all levels every available lever to achieve housing security for our community. We know you share these goals, and we look forward to working toward them with you in the next year. And now it's my privilege to introduce three more great EPAP members, Jenny Glass, Arlene Kimura, and Naima Shahid.
 Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jenny Glass. I'm a proud member of the East Portland Action Plan for almost eight years now. I'm also a Parks Board member and one of our EPAP representatives to the Parks Bureau. This fiscal year, our priorities for parks in East Portland were implementing existing master plans at Park Lane Park and Clatsop Butte,
 connecting lava dome areas to begin Forest Park East, and completing the planning and design for Gateway Green. For years, we've been asking for equity in spending in East Portland, and Portland Parks has met that request. We're the star of the show. And the impact is very real for our residents. Our gay neighbors are enjoying their beautiful new Lewitt View Park. Ventura Park's new playground is busier than ever, and people of all ages are riding around on the first tracks at Gateway Green.
 We're anxiously awaiting the opening of Gateway Discovery Park this summer. Not only did we complete these great projects throughout East Portland last year through SDC funds and park replacement dollars, but we also spent time planning for our next investments. Phase one of implementing Park Lane Park Master Plan is underway. And last fall, thanks to you all, we adopted the Master Plans for 150th and Division Mill in Midland.
 Thanks to the leadership of Commissioner Fritz and support from you all, we have accomplished so much for parks in East Portland this past year. In the Parks 2020 vision, the goal is for all Portland residents to have access to a great park within a half mile or about a 15-minute walk from their home. This is a really big lift in East Portland, but PPNR is proving they're up to the challenge.
 In general, I think that parks are such an important part of our city. They're not just a vanity measure. They're an upstream investment in our community's mental and physical health. They are where 40% in East Portland, where 40% of our children are growing up, they need parks where their families can connect and community members can find respite and a sense of belonging.
 And this level of equity is going to require a committed, continued, deep investment in East Portland. And we just want to thank you for the investments that you've made and for continuing to prioritize parks in East Portland. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. So I want to credit the Parks Bureau because, yes, when you're doing a replacement bond, which is basically fixing things, it's hard when you don't have anything to fix.
 However, we have found ways to redo the Argy tennis courts and greatly improve Ventura Park at the same time as making it more accessible and providing a loo. I'm very happy with all the loos we're putting in in East Portland. Moving forward, when I had a small group visiting with me in my office to give me my annual report card, my question is, and it's not to answer now but for discussion, you've long time had Park Lane and Clatsop Butte as your top priorities for the next parks to be done.
 Given that we've now done Midland Mill and 150th and Division, whoever is the Parks Commissioner, I believe, will be looking for eSport and Action Plan's input into our park lane in Clatsop, but is it still the priority, or should we move to quick implementation of the master plans that we've just done?
 Great, and I think the Operations Committee is going to be hearing from East Portland Parks Coalition and setting priorities, and we'll be in touch with you. Always helpful when the community sets the priorities. Yeah. It's much easier for whoever is the Parks Committee to implement that.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. And yes, we are reviewing our strategic priorities for parks, and I will say that at least 150th is on that list. So thank you very much. We also thank you for the effort on getting it implemented. I get to talk about transportation and the wonderful investment that so far has taken place in East Portland for transportation dollars.
 We're now up to 104% per capita income per person in investment and transportation dollars. And while I know that we've gotten money from the state to do power billboard,
 It has only been with the help of the PBOT staff who has helped us push this thing along, and our state legislators. We have managed to get that, and we do want to thank you very much for the supporting investment dollars to make something big like the $110 million happen. Thank you again. We also want to talk at our EPAP strategic priorities, which are coming up for further discussion and involuntary displacement.
 I am also working with the Getting There Together Coalition, which looks at transportation. But we have talked about you cannot look at transportation dollars in a vacuum. You must look at it along with the metro bond and the city bond to do it in conjunction with transportation dollars so that they coexist. And we provide infrastructure improvements for everyone at the same time. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Naeema Shaheed, and I'm a part of the EPAP grant committee. I joined about two years ago. My timeline's a little bit fuzzy, but I've been on the committee and had the honor of reading all the proposals that have come to us. Just so many, and of course, not a lot can be funded. Not all of them could be funded, I should say. But we've had the honor of granting
 some awesome ones, some money. And it's really good because it helps the community come together. It helps low income. It helps fund racial and ethnic-specific languages, a part of just cultural community projects. And we've had projects were approved by full consensus at the December 2016 General EPAP meeting on,
 12 applicants were requested $104,000 and 200, sorry, excuse me, $104,264, but eight projects were recommended and funded by the city for $74,996. And in March 2017, the general EPAP meeting gave full consensus to the $104,264,
 approved applicants, they requested $233,974. And 11 projects were funded by the city, with a total of $79,000. So there's a bunch out there that
 would like more, but we can only give what we can give. So we're happy to do that and we're thankful for you guys for helping with that. Yeah, I think it's great for the East Portland committee, the East Portland community, and we appreciate you guys. And I want to introduce the next few people that are speaking. Before you do that, the thank you is from us to you. You have made our jobs easier.
 by helping us to redistribute at the local level those grant dollars to projects that you know are going to have the maximum impact and the most immediate impact in your community. So you're actually doing a lot of groundwork for us. Oh, great. So back at you. Oh, thank you. You're welcome. Yeah, I get to see a lot of really cool ideas from the community. Of course, me specifically, I wish that...
 We could give it all to them because there's some really amazing ones, but we can't do that. So with that, I'll introduce Ali Ibrahim, Kim Harvey-Trihoso, and Mustafa Fini. Very good. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Thank you.
 Hello. Hello. Do I start? Yeah, if you'd like. Sure. Thank you. All right. My name is Kim Javi-Trigoso, and I'm with Northwest Family Services. I'm a program manager, and Northwest Family Services is a multicultural organization in the Portland metro area. We have over 35 years of experience providing programs for youth and families, and we want to thank you for...
 giving us a grant through the East Portland Action Plan for our peer court and family empowerment projects. We've been doing those two programs in East County for the last 10 years, and they've been extremely successful. And thanks to this grant, we've been able to expand it to East Portland and serve the David Douglas High School.
 These two programs promote Latino and culturally diverse parent and student leadership at David Douglas, and we brought a crew here. So I'm going to be introducing you next to Eva Robchok, and she's our peer coordinator. Thank you.
 Hello. So I'm going to start with some numbers of our accomplishments. So this year we trained and recruited 24 East Portland students as youth attorneys and jurors for the Peer Court Program. We've held nine Peer Court hearings for this year.
 academic year. We had four Peer Court trainings that took place at the ERCO building which was an in-kind space donation and at the East Portland Community Center and we conducted nine Peer Court presentations for outreach and recruited students from the David Douglas High School Club Fair, Latino Parent Night, Black and Latino Student Union Clubs, Early Escalera Program and Key Club and next I'll have you hear from two of our youth volunteers.
 So first we have Annabel. Before you do that, could you just explain a little bit more about what is the Peer Court? Yes, she's going to explain that. Oh, sorry. Yes. First we have Annabel Sukin. Thank you. Hello, I'm Annabel Sukin. And first before I talk about my personal story, I'm going to explain a little bit more about what Peer Court is. And it is an educative and restorative justice program that engages high school students in jury and attorney trainings led by licensed attorneys and staff.
 Students learn law slash criminal justice professions and develop public speaking skills while holding peers with first-time misdemeanor offenses like MIP alcohol, PCS, marijuana, theft, etc., accountable without involvement in the juvenile justice system.
 Personally, I've grown up in the David Douglas community and it's very diverse. And I came, I'm coming from a multiracial background. I've grown up and experienced a lot of culture. And PeerCorps has been a very empowering experience for me because it's shown me that I can be a leader in my community at such a young age. And because of PeerCorps, I have now taken part in many other volunteering opportunities in my community.
 However, not only does Peer Court impact the youth that volunteer, it also impacts the youth that we represent. These kids that come into Peer Court are not criminals. They're teens like us who just make silly mistakes. And I believe that having teens their age representing them comforts and motivates them to be better. And I believe that's a key benefit from this program because...
 that motivation is pushing these kids to be better, and that is impacting the future generations like mine to be better, and it's really important to us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your participation. Sorry. And now I'll be introducing David Guerin-Nunez. All right. Thanks. Good afternoon and welcome. Thank you.
 So I'm David Guernemus, as you just said. I was born in Las Tunas, Cuba, and I am a proud immigrant. As a freshman at David Douglas, Peer Corps has really given me the opportunity to help people in my community that I've grown up around all my life. And they are the same age as me, if not younger or somewhat older.
 Peer Court has, in the short time that I've been with it, I've gotten a lot of public, not a lot, but I've had public speaking opportunities, such as this one right in front of the mayor. And that's, you know, something really special that benefits anybody who decides to join this. And I think that I would recommend to anybody around my age that this is something that can really help and aid in seeing if you want to perhaps have a career path in law.
 That would be really interesting. And up next is Latino parent educator Jorge Guzman. Can I ask you a question before you disappear here? Yeah, sure. How did you hear about the Peer Court? What got you involved? I heard about Peer Court. There was a presentation in Key Club at my high school, and that's all. And just right off the bat, I was really interested. So, yeah. Yeah, that sounds fun. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Jorge. We have been doing some specific classes at David Douglas High School targeting families, Latino families mainly, to help them develop success with their youth based on academic engagement, understanding the team mental health, the development of the brain, and the negative consequences of drugs and alcohol that this can have on youth.
 Our classes, like I said, are targeting only Latino students, mainly David Douglas. And right here with us, we have a parent who has attended a few of our classes. We tend to do these classes once per month. And I would like to introduce her. Jorge, this is a class for students or for adults? It's for both, parents and students. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate that clarification. Thanks. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Olga Rodriguez. I'm a co-facilitator with Mr. Jorge. I'm going to introduce our parent from the classes, Cecilia. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'll be translating. Thank you. Do you want to pull up a chair? Would that be easier for you? Let's grab one and slide it right up there. There you go. Thanks, Olga.
 Buenas tardes, soy un padre de familia del distrito escolar David Douglas. Tengo dos hijos. Good afternoon, I'm a parent of the David School District, David Douglas School District. I have two children, David Douglas. Un adolescente de 16 años y un niño de 10 años. An adolescent of 16 years old at the high school and a middle schooler.
 I'd like to thank all of you guys for allowing us to receive these classes because of your funding because these classes provide us the tools to help us understand the development of our youth and how we can support them
 It is very important for us to understand the mental health development of our teens and how we can support them. And with this, we can help build a stronger community.
 We hope that these type of programs continue so we can continue educating more families in our community. So we can continue developing a stronger community and families. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Willer and all commissioners. My name is Ali Ibrahim. I'm from SACO, which means Somali American Council of Oregon. Actually, I'm talking today a brief description about the work we accomplish and the importance of the workshops on the grant we get from IPAP.
 Really, the grant's name is Improving Relationship with the Community Voice. Because why we say this is because our community, as you know, most of them, they came from very rural area back home, like refugee camps in Kenya. And most of them, they are not so educated.
 And a few of them are dedicated, but the police system here in America is different than the police system back home. So there is a thing that our community, they are always afraid of the police. When they hear the word police or something involving the police, they think like it's something very big. So we came with this idea to make the relationship between our community and the police to make it better.
 So far, we have taken seven workshops. Since these workshops, the police were educating our community how the police works, how the police system is in America, and the police are friendly. They are a member of the community, police themselves. So we make like these six workshops. We make...
 three different workshops, women group, men group, and youth group. And the other three we make all together in groups. They are really appreciated, the workshops. Even the police themselves, they take an advantage. They benefit a lot of stuff, a lot of things from our community.
 They explained it to us in the workshops in different aspects, what the police do, how they do it. And according to when the youth was taking part of the program, I mean the youth of the workshop, they just explained it, even they encouraged our youth that they can partake and they can be the police themselves.
 So now many youth in our community are also encouraged, and now they are applying to be a police. Abdul Qadir is one of them. He's here now today sitting there. He's willing to join the police. So at the same time, we have other programs the police referred us, that we have many single women who doesn't know how to drive, and nobody's helping them. So there was a program which the police was doing, which is driver safety programs.
 education. So we referred about 15 women there too, so that the police helped us. So now they have got their driving license. So this funding which EBAP gave us is very helpful, but the problem is we served like 300 now families, and it's very, very less. If we would like to continue this program, we would like to get more fund, and I will request anybody who can help us, commissioners, mayors,
 So if you can help us, because we are a grassroots organization, SACO. We have just started. This is our first grant. So if you can help us to build the capacity between the police and our community more and more, it will be much more helpful. Now we are also planning to have what we call a community tea, which we have to invite the police in their free time with the community together and have tea. Already one officer started, Commissioner, forget her name.
 Can you remember the commissioner who came to us in the meeting? Natasha, exactly. She came to us and she has a tea with us. She was very wonderful and she promised us she will connect us, Sunshine Division, to distribute the food because some of our family, they have less food stamp and they need more food. So she's willing us to help more and more. So please and please, come.
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, EPUB. I would like, or we would like, as SACO, to help more of our people in Portland, Oregon, and also Portland, Oregon area. So we outreached three more hundred people, not only East Portland, even in Beaverton, in North Portland, and in Northeast Portland. So we would like to continue this program. If you help us, we only need your help. If you help us, we can succeed.
 And if you don't, we can. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Ali. I would like more information, if I could get more information on this program. And maybe you could, Mustafa, could you just raise your hand? Maybe you could exchange e-mail information. I know Chief Outlaw has stated as part of her presentation
 ongoing efforts of the Portland Police Bureau to create and strengthen community engagement opportunities like this, to build trust, to share information, to build a collaborative relationship. And in particular, I'm very, very happy to hear that we are getting more young candidates of color interested in policing.
 We spend a lot of time in this room talking about police reform and police accountability, and one of the best things that we can do to further that is have the police bureau be of the community. That's my personal belief, and I know Chief Outlaw believes that as well. So programs like yours are really, really helpful, and I appreciate you taking the personal time and the personal energy to help create those opportunities for partnership.
 Thank you very much. We appreciate your help. Thank you. Mustafa, welcome. All right. Hello, Mayor Wheeler and the commissioners. That could almost be a band name.
 So thank you for having us this afternoon. Appreciate you. I'm going to be doing the closing for our presentation today. And I thought I would just kind of do what we do in our EPAP general meeting, which is kind of do some success tracking. So I'm going to go over this really quick. And I'm sorry, the legal counsel will get on my case if you don't state your name. Oh, yes. My name is Mustafa Finney, and I am through New Avenues for Youth, and I'm your EPAP co-chair. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry about that.
 Alright, we heard from Karen. We heard Karen talking about an overview of EPAP and how important the work is. We do. Obviously, you've heard that from everybody up here, so you know how important this work is. We made sure to reference our strategic priorities and recommendations for displacement prevention, which has guided our work and one of the reasons why we have been so successful.
 We heard from Nick, and he showed us how important budget mapping was in order to ensure the city is spending equitably. Once again, this project shows the diversity and skills of EPAP members. Very passionate and skilled, we have people like Nick who find budget mapping enjoyable. Okay.
 We heard from Natalie about health worker trainings and successfully advocating for ONI's money for translation and child care and the need to continually make sure our community members can participate, understand, and provide feedback. We heard from Kate around economic development, around community investment funds, and working with commissioners to make sure that money is allocated effectively.
 correctly and equitably. And the Workforce Navigator Program with 365 people signed up, 24% employment rates.
 So that was very good. We heard from Katie in operations around the Gateway Economic Education Development Center and meeting with stakeholders, which we appreciate. We mentioned the quadrant plan and what we would like for East Portland moving forward. We heard from John in housing, renters' rights and...
 the raising rents. He gave us a snapshot of where our East Portland families are now and the dire conditions of below standard housing. We're looking forward for next year and the chance to use those funds more effectively. We heard from Jenny in parks and all the great work that has been done with park improvements and renovations and including many different parks that we have been working on. Thank you for that work.
 We heard from Arlene and transportation in supporting those investment dollars, a reminder of not working on transportation in a silo and instead looking at a complete picture with transportation.
 We heard from Naima around the applicants we had for grants and the many different community groups that have come forward with many different amazing projects and our ability to connect with those groups on the ground level and be able to assist them in these processes and make things clear and make city council more accessible for community members who maybe never thought that they could acquire those funds and implement these projects.
 So we appreciated that. We heard from Ali and their program around the workshops, working with police in the community to get that education. Also improving relationships with the community, having police in the community, working with these communities that have a past with law enforcement.
 So just bridging those gaps and creating those positive relationships. So lastly, as you've heard, we've done great work together and hopefully continue and will continue to do great work together. I just have to mention on a personal level, I've been involved with EPAP for about two years now. Quickly was appointed co-chair.
 It was a little bit over my head because I'm not that political of a person, but this has been a crash course, I'll tell you that much. You learn the ins and outs of the city and...
 you really get an eye for what your community needs and how to advocate for those needs. So I have just been in awe and appreciative of being a part of this group. I joked at our last EPAP general meeting and said where else would I have access to this caliber of people and skills and quality of investment and the time they put into EPAP.
 Yeah, you all know. You all know. So to kind of end, we are grateful that the council will be working with EPAP for our next stages in planning for the East Portland Quadrant Plan.
 And we just want to remind, you know, for transportation, it's very important, as we know, we need to get our East County families to living wage jobs. So thank you for all the help with the line that was put out there on 162nd, but also to future work being done to really fill in that infrastructure of transportation for our families. And lastly, like John said, investment in housing is critical because displacement is happening in East County.
 So to wrap everything up, I thank you for your work and collaboration with EPAP. I thank EPAP for all the work that you all have done, and thank you for letting me be a part of this great work. And we are very hopeful in the future of EPAP and where we're going to be moving into and conversations of how we can evolve and grow and do this work more efficiently and more equitably. So thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Mr. Affleck, would you tell folks how did you first get involved in EPAP? What was it that drew you to your first meeting? Thank you.
 Well, my position when I started with New Avenues for Youth about two years ago was a new position. So I was charged with coming out to East County to see how homelessness affected youth differently than the youth downtown. One of the first places my boss directed me to plug myself into the happenings of East County was EPAP. So that was one of my first charges when I first got hired was plug yourself into EPAP so that you can know what's going on in East County.
 And as I continued to be involved with EPAP, it just kind of snowballed from there. And then after about a year, I found myself as co-chair, which has been an amazing experience. So, I mean, yeah, when I got first hired, this was the group that I was pointed to. So it just goes to show, you know, how far reaching. And that office is downtown, so, you know.
 I just thank you for your work thank you for your leadership one of the many things I love about EPAP is that we have long time volunteers who've been working in East Portland for 30 years or more and then we have people like you who are go because you were told to go and then get inspired by the other volunteers and by the advocates who work with the EPAP on staff and it's really very very impressive, thank you Thank you
 I also just want to say, personally, you have more than risen to the occasion. People are, you know, let's just be honest, this is a pretty challenging time in history for a lot of different people, for a lot of different reasons, and they are looking for leadership, and they're asked all the time, where are the leaders? Right.
 And you are, I think, representative of the kind of leadership that exists in this city that maybe people don't know or is just under the radar. But just listening to your organization, listening to everybody's presentation today, the degree to which it is organized, thoughtful, data-driven,
 experiential-based, community-driven, this makes our job so much easier. A lot of what we do up here is we listen to people yell at us. And for some people, that's actually helpful. And I get my position of privilege, and I get my position of authority, and I know that sometimes people just need to take truth to that authority and that privilege. Yeah.
 And if that's helpful, then I'm happy. But what I love about this is it's a two-way street where we work really, really hard to keep up with you.
 You're leading the agenda. You're leading the charge. You're putting all the ideas out there. You're offering up the innovations. You're putting down the goals. You're making the budget requests. And I feel sort of breathless just listening to the presentation and taking notes and thinking about how on earth can we keep up with the vision of the budget.
 that folks on EPAP have for East Portland because it's a grand vision. It's a really great vision. This is one of the things that the city of Portland does well. So I have two hopes for today. Number one, I hope Tom Potter is watching this.
 Wherever he is today, I hope he sees this and appreciates that way back at the beginning when we were sitting around sort of conceptualizing with some of the founding members what this might look like and what it might lead to. I think it's really surpassed, I'll just speak for myself, it's surpassed even my greatest hopes and aspirations of what EPAP could be. It is a permanent goal.
 force for positive change across a whole variety of different areas. So I'm just sitting here and I'm listening with pride, but I'm also seeing the challenge. I mean, the only bureau here that on a per capita basis, it's mine. And I take the challenge really seriously. I take it very, very seriously. And same with the bond. So, yeah.
 Really good work. Thank you to you, Mustafa. Thanks for your leadership. This is what happens when you don't show up for meetings. People vote you in as vice chair. Right. I was there, and they still voted me in. I just have to say, in closing, I cannot be the leader I am today without all of my mentors behind me. So, yeah.
 Yeah. Thank you. Community makes you a leader. That's right. So we have one of these is an ordinance, which means we take public testimony. So if people are interested in public testimony, I don't know, Sue, if people have signed up. Shedrick Wilkins. The one, the only. Come on up. Three minutes. You know the routine. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I was gone because I had dental work at Mount Hood Community College, which is in –
 On Wednesday on East Portland. I like Mount Hood Community College. It's a nice campus. You see Mount Hood off in the background. Anyway, my perspective is to make things work, though, for East Portland is to make sure that Governor Kate Brown is reelected because she has provided coverall health care, which last year was passed by the legislature, which covers non-residential facilities.
 immigrants for health care also in January 2018. The HMO tax also was passed for people who can't afford health care. So 60% of Oregonians care about people who don't have insurance. That's surprising. 40% don't, but 60% do. And I was one of the 60%.
 I think someday under leadership, maybe in East Portland they can make shoes cheap like China does. Strangely enough, Kate Brown's opponent got $500,000 for Nike founder Phil Knight.
 who has done nothing in his life but 20 years ago export shoes in China instead of making them here. And so cheap that even I bought for the last 20 years shoes from China. But if they were $5 more than $30, I would buy them from here. So somebody could work on that and make jobs in Oregon.
 And Phil Knight was born in Portland, Oregon, and then he decided he was cheaper to make the shoes in China. But somebody ought to bring it back here. And I accept immigrants from all races. They're very spirited and skilled. One example is Elon Musk, who was a PayPal billionaire. He makes rockets cheaper than NASA does. Elon Musk was born...
 in South Africa, and he came to San Francisco at the age of 24. So he was an immigrant. And I've got recently he builds SpaceX rockets from a guy who wasn't born here. So immigrants do have a certain spirit, an open-mindedness, to do something like Elon Musk, and he wasn't born here. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. And does that complete public testimony? Very good. Colleagues, any further discussion?
 Commissioner Udaly? Just a point of clarification. We have a panel coming up for the grants portion. Is that what we're about to do?
 fabulous. Um, I was, I didn't realize we had another panel for the grants portion. So let's bring that on. Yeah. Um, so East Portland action plan members work together using a consensus model. God bless them, uh, to implement their grants program. I would like to introduce the following three people to present this item. Victor Salinas, who's the East Portland neighborhood office director. Jennifer Samuel, Samuels. You'd think I'd be able to pronounce that. Uh,
 And Sean Cruz from the Jim Pepper Culture and Arts Festival. Oh, and I guess there's been a fourth person added, Dr. Alan Buck. Very good. Excellent. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and council members. For the record, my name is Victor Salinas. I'm with the East Portland Neighborhood Office, and I'm asking for your support today for the 2018 East Portland Action Plan grant recommendations.
 This year, EPAP is recommending $149,515.66 for the 24 grants and $19,975 for a municipal partnership project for a total of $169,490.66.
 I would like to request that you consider authorization for the 2018 EPAP grants, following the presentations from two of our recommended grantees, Jennifer Samuels, Sean Cruz, and Dr. Alan Buck. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Jennifer Samuels. I'm from Reading Results. And thank you to Mayor Wheeler and the commissioners. And thank you to all of our amazing East Portland Action Plan community leaders. It's been really inspiring to hear you speak today.
 In my role as Director of Reading Results, I'm really grateful to have a unique opportunity to see students at schools across our region. And what I see at each of these schools is the same. Six-, seven-, and eight-year-olds who are already behind in reading and don't have access to the individualized attention that they need to be great readers.
 And the risk is really high. We know for students who are low-income and students of color who aren't reading by the end of third grade, they are 13 times less likely to be on track to graduate from high school than their wealthier peers who are reading at what we consider to be benchmarked.
 So this is the work that Reading Results does. We partner with primarily Title I low-income schools to provide a targeted, proven, data-driven reading intervention program. It's a lot of education wonkiness. We support schools, students, families on their journey toward realizing equitable education. Research tells us that for students falling behind, one-on-one and one-on-two instruction is the most reliable and effective strategy to accelerate achievement
 At each school we serve, the students in our program have the access and opportunity to work one-on-one or one-on-two with highly trained and dedicated tutors. About a third of our tutors are retired teachers or certified teachers who aren't currently employed, and two-thirds of our tutors are parents and members of the school communities that we serve.
 So from the student experience, they get to sit down up to 80 or 90 times a year and get the full attention of a dedicated individual who has prepared lesson instructions for them to be successful in reading, looking them right in the eyes, and meeting them where they are.
 And the students in our program are doing really well. This year at reading results, we're going to serve about 660 students. That's 35,000 tutoring sessions. Next year, we're going to try to serve 720 students in Portland. Funding from the East Portland Action Plan helps these students and helps reading results serve these students and helps them realize their learning goals.
 This year we will serve about 100 students in the East Portland Action Plan area. We're going to serve at Gilbert Park, Earl Boyles in the David Douglas School District, Patrick Lynch in Centennial, and Glen Fair School in Reynolds School District. EPAP funding supports our program expenses, includes salaries for our tutors, books, and program teaching materials, program evaluation assessments.
 Service at these schools also creates 13 part-time jobs in the EPAP area, 11 of which this year are held by EPAP residents. So it also promotes and creates job opportunities. The students in our program are expected anticipated outcomes that they're going to make about 16 months of reading gains in the nine or so months that we serve them, helping them accelerate, being ready for high school and beyond, etc.
 At Reading Results, we believe all children have the right to read and succeed. I know you share this vision, and I thank you and EPAP for making our work possible. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners and Council. It's good to be here with you. My name is Alan Buck. I'm a citizen of the Cherokee Nation and pastor at the Wilshire United Methodist Native American Fellowship.
 in northeast portland i'm also the chair of the jim pepper native arts council and um i moved here a year ago so i'm new to your city moved here from edmond oklahoma didn't know a whole lot about this area left home and left my tribe to come here and just be a public servant like you all do my best to uh
 find the needs, assess the needs, meet the needs, develop community. And, um, there are a lot of opportunities and a lot of needs here in Portland and well, all around the globe. Uh, so people looking for those, uh, um, you know, there are many, many opportunities and, uh,
 You all know, as well as I do, that sometimes it's difficult to decide where to give yourself your time, your energy, your resources, where you can make the largest impact, where you can be most of service.
 I just want to celebrate and endorse what you all have already said. The EPAP is one of those places where things are happening. And Jim Pepper Native Arts Festival and their council, the things that they're involved in,
 I think have alignment with your core values, with what I see here, with meeting the needs. And so Sean's going to tell you more about what Jim Pepper Arts Council is up to. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. My name is Sean Aaron Cruz. I'm the executive director of the Jim Pepper Native Arts Council. And I'm...
 Our mission is to improve access to culturally relevant music education for Native American kids. Jim Pepper's name. And also recognizing the educational legacy of the Pepper family, his mother, Floyd Pepper, an important Indian educator, and his sister, Susie Pepper Henry, who was the director of special education at Park Road Schools for a number of years, and Jim's nephew, Jim Pepper Henry, is an important...
 educator on a national level. And the public policy components of what we do were actually born in the 2005 legislative session when I was serving as Senator A. Vel Gordly's Chief of Staff and with Senate Resolution 31 which passed that year and Mayor Potter also declared Jim Pepper Day that year. And her work in cultural competency and equity and justice issues
 Leaving No Child Left Behind, Expanded Options, and her work with the nine federally recognized tribes as well as the tribal communities in Portland. And as an organization and as an event, we were actually born in Park Road Superintendent Karen Gray's office in the fall of 2012.
 And we talked about the public policy goals and doing better for Native kids who statewide suffer the highest dropout rates, the highest suicide rates, and the worst numbers in graduating from high school on time. And so our strategy is to address those issues of keeping these kids in school. And this year, with EPAP's support,
 We are launching our Speak Sing Native programs. We are transitioning from producing an annual event to actual direct service provision, targeting cohorts and native students, and we've begun work
 We're actually starting to actually do the work in June with kids from Grand Ronde in Portland, Chief Leshi School in Washington, and elsewhere in the state, Warm Springs, Umatilla, Saletz, and Grand Ronde. And that's just the beginning. I want to recognize, we would not be here if it wasn't for the Park Road School District and support from the Park Road School Board, which is
 you know, provided us with our permanent home. And also Travel Portland. Travel Portland has been with us from the beginning. Seeing Jim Pepper, the national and international stature of Jim Pepper, how he's known away from Portland. And advertising our event is one more great reason for people to come and visit the city. And lastly, I just want to say our festival is free.
 no admission charge and that's in keeping with our mission of improving access because the population we intend to serve is largely impoverished and there are barriers. Most families can't afford concert tickets or particularly to bring the kids.
 We hope to see you all out last week in September. This year we're adding a second half day. On Sunday it's going to be a fried bread brunch and salmon bake. And we thank you for your support. Where is the festival? At Park Rose High School. Oh, you have Dan's attention now. Yeah. Yeah. Sounds great. Thank you so very much. Awesome. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you.
 Thank you. Commissioner Udalli, is there another panel? Those were all our invited speakers. Thank you everyone. And while we're on the topic of Native American art, on your way out, I hope you'll get a chance to check out the show in the South Atrium, which is a collection of paintings by Native artist Peggy Ball Morrill, celebrating native North Portland.
 Very good. And because I sort of jumped the gun on public testimony before the grant, was there anybody else who wanted to testify? Yes? Come on up. Hi. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, council members. Again, for the record, Victor Salinas. I just wanted to remind you that that was an ordinance for the grants, and we're seeking your authorization and approval for the 24 recommended grants. You got it. Thanks, Victor. So first up, the report. I'll entertain a motion.
 I move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion on the report? Sue, please call the roll. Saltzman. Well, thank you, as always, for your high-caliber progress report on getting things done for East Portland. And it's, you know, I've been around lots of organizations over the years, and few are as results-oriented and focused as the East Portland Action Plan is. So I...
 really commend you. And I want to commend Mayor Wheeler, Mayor Potter, Senator Berkeley. I remember about 2006 or 2007 coming to meetings in East Portland where we were talking about forming this and supporting the action plan. And sure enough, many years later, you're doing your job as intended. And so I think those originators are proud of you, I'm sure. So thank you for the good work and keep it up. Hi.
 Well, I've said this before, but I'm going to say it again in case some of you weren't in the room. EPAP is just one of my favorite groups to work with. It's really a pleasure to get to do that through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. My first EPAP meeting, my heart sank when I looked at the agenda and saw there were at least three or four dozen items on it. And I thought, oh, boy, this is going to be a long night. And, in fact, there's no way these people can get through this agenda. But they did. They did.
 They're incredibly efficient and effective without sacrificing dialogue or process. And especially at this moment in our history, it's really...
 incredible and heartening to see a diverse group of community members who may have very disparate interests and priorities, but share the same values around inclusion and equity and affordability, and who are able to advance this plan. It's really an incredible thing to witness. So
 So, of course, thanks go out to Lore and Mustafa and Arlene who hold things together and help everyone stay the course. But it's all the community member volunteers who are the wind in the sails. We couldn't do any of this without you. So thank you to all of the presenters, to staff, to EPET members. I'm very pleased to vote aye. Fritz. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Tom Potter, Multnomah County Chair Ted Wheeler, and Senator Jeff Merkley for helping to get this started. Thank you to the community. This was adopted as one of the first things I did in 2009. And I know Commissioner Fish is sorry he can't be here. He consistently says this is one of his favorite events of the year.
 It's really meaningful that you've come back every year, and you come back during the day, on a Wednesday or a Thursday, when it's not easy to take time off work, and we recognise that, and thank you for the dedication that you make at work for people. Because it's not only city staff who are working in regular business hours, it's actually often more easy for some people to watch from home during the day if they have home-based work.
 work like childcare or eldercare or other things. It's surprising how many people watch Channel 30. Thank you very much to the good folks at Open Signal. I think we are one of the most watched daytime TV programs for good reason. And that's good because it lets people know what good work is happening in the community.
 So in 2012, I wasn't sure that I was going to get re-elected. And so every year before that, I had had to remind the council by putting in a special appropriation request for East Portland Action Plan funding because it was one-time funding. And so I tentatively suggested that it go into the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement just so that if I didn't win, there would be somebody who would be looking out for making sure it was in the budget. And throughout the recession, the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement...
 throughout my first term and my second, everybody at the Office of Navigant Involvement said we're not going to cut East Portland Action Plan. It's the last in. It should not be the first cut. And so then Charlie Hales had a budget note that asked, you know, when is it going to phase out? And you diligently looked and said when it's done and therefore that it needed ongoing funding. And it changed to ongoing funding. And I know that everybody on the council believes that's the right decision. Thank you.
 I think we're at a turning point now with former superintendent Karen Fisher-Gray moving on to pastures new. Thank you for your dedication to our community and for all the students and community members that you have touched. Thank you, Laura Wintergreen, for your amazing work as the staff advocate. And as you look to be retiring at some point, it's...
 crucial point for the East Portland Action Plan and because of the people who are here today, because of frankly the love that everybody on the council has for you and that their awareness that what you are doing is important work that needs to be done and is frankly some of the best work that is happening in the City of Portland, just a little bit of help from the taxpayers of Portland. That's why it's going to continue.
 And there'll be storms, there always are storms when we're trying to figure out how to get things done, especially when there are insufficient resources. And so I will invite all of East Portland to come and join in the Portland Parks Bureau as they start looking over the next six months. We don't have enough money to pay for everything that people want, either in new construction or in maintenance of old stuff. And so how are we going to decide what are the services that we want?
 Everybody, when I went around and said I've got $25 million to dole out in system development charges, what should I do with it? How should I prioritize that? Everybody in the different coalition areas...
 prioritized their area, things they wanted done in their area. But everybody said, invest most in East Portland because they don't have anything. And that was what gave me the mandate to be able to do what now you've shown in the budget mapping and in the per capita expenditure. People in Portland across the city believe in equity and believe in fairness, believe that everybody deserves a developed park within walking distance of their home.
 And we don't currently have that yet, despite the progress that's been made. And so I invite you, with all of your advocacy skills, with all of your consensus skills, with all the communities of color and low-income folks that you represent, participate in that process to help us help the city, the community figure out, how are we going to pay for our park system? Because that is a crucial issue that does need to be addressed.
 Thank you to Janine Gates on my staff, who I did not order her to go. I said to my staff, I would really like somebody to attend the East Portland Action Plan, and Janine volunteered to go and has been, I know, a consistent attendee and is always diligent about reporting back to me what's been happening there, trying to walk that fine line between the committee.
 being the commission's representative and being a community advocate herself who is passionate about equity. And so thank you for welcoming her into your midst and guiding her along her way. Thank you Mayor for your ongoing funding of this and Commissioner Daly for the Institute of the Republic.
 So I already gave my long speech, maybe prematurely, but I won't give it again. I thought it was okay the first time. I will just say this. Great presentation. I have an idea for next year. I'll just put this out as sort of a bug, and maybe we can think about it over the course of the next year. And I was sort of prompted by Commissioner, I think it was Commissioner Fritz, maybe it was Commissioner Udaly, who said it's really hard to get here on a Wednesday afternoon during work hours, right?
 We get lots of calls and cards and e-mails and tweets and Instagrams and whatever else I'm forgetting from East Portlanders who I know would have a real interest in this conversation and the work you're doing. Wouldn't this be a fun evening meeting in East Portland, and we could maybe broaden the agenda and make it fun and interesting and engaging?
 And I'm also saying that anticipating that next year's charts will look really good. So I'll make sure that happens. But let's at least think about that, and maybe we could do some back and forth on whether that makes sense. And we have plenty of time to muse over that. Second of all, as was mentioned earlier, three members of my staff pressed –
 Plus Prosper Portland are looking forward to meeting with some of you later today to talk about Gateway. And it's my understanding that the developer will not be at this particular meeting, but is keyed to be at the subsequent meeting. So we'll lay out that framework and the ideas and hear from you. And then that will tee up a meeting with the developer, which I very much look forward to.
 So, anyway, without further ado, great work. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Now to the ordinance. Could you please, is there any further discussion on the ordinance? This is where the money comes in, so this is actually the better to vote. Could you call the roll, please, Sue? Southman. Well, I just wanted to add my congratulations to Dr. Fisher Gray for her new job and for being superintendent of the year. That's fantastic.
 Quite an honor, both of those. I want to thank Arlene Kimora and Laura Wintergreen, people I've worked with over long periods of time. And you've certainly been involved with East Portland from the ground up. So kudos to all of you. Aye. Udallie.
 Thank you to the presenters today. Thank you to the staff and volunteers. Congratulations to the recipients. That list of recipients will be up on the ONI website tomorrow, I've been told, for anyone who's interested in seeing where these dollars are specifically going to. And I'm glad to get these out the door before July 1, because this is the end of our fiscal year, and hence the emergency aspect. I vote aye.
 Prince. Thank you to everybody who testified today, both longtime volunteers and people who are testifying for the first time. You spoke for your community and you spoke really well. So thank you for taking the time to come.
 One of the best things about this is that the grants total is 169,491. That's more than half of the money that goes to the East Portland Action Plan. And there's not many community organizations who both do the amazing organizing, provide the childcare, the facilitation services, the translation services, the food, accessible venues.
 You do all that and you get most of your money out of the door to other groups. And so thank you especially to the East Portland Neighbourhood Office and the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement now, the Office for, I wait for it, Civic and Community Life? Close. Community and Civic Life. Yeah. Okay.
 for overseeing those grants in addition to the eSport and Action Plan staff. That is, when you're giving out this number of small grants, that's actually a lot, in some cases, a lot more work than looking over a small number of larger grants. So thank you very much.
 Wheeler. Some good programs listed here. Thank you for your due diligence and your hard work. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And we are going to adjourn, but there's been a request for a photo, and I think it's best if we do it just right up front here. And Ms. Stauffen, could you help me just take out the thing? Without further ado, thank you, everyone. We are adjourned.