All right, are we ready? Very good. This is the Wednesday, May 31st meeting at the Parkland City Council. I'd like to start off today. I'm sorry, call the roll, please. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Obviously, our community has been subjected to a horrific crime this last week, and
 I think it would be appropriate if we could start today's city council meeting with a moment of silence to recognize those who were impacted by this horrific situation. Rick, Taliesin, and Micah in particular, the two young women who were subjected to hateful and bigoted language, who were terrorized on a MAX train in our community last Friday. I want to acknowledge them.
 that two of the three individuals, Rick and Taliesin, they stood up for the right thing and they paid with their lives. And Micah, who is, we are so thankful now out of the hospital and he's healing. The two young women who are really struggling and need the support and the love of this community to their families for giving us such incredible people that...
 we and future generations of people in this great community can look back on and be inspired by their principled stand that they took and the courage and the bravery that they demonstrated into our whole community, which is working so hard to come together and struggling to come to grips with this situation. There are definitely better days ahead.
 For all of us. I'd like to take, if I could, a moment of silence so we could all reflect on this situation. Thank you. And I just want to add, I know there are a number of employees at the Bureau of Development Services who are watching this. Rick Best, one of the victims of Friday night's event, was a highly valued member of the Portland community.
 He was an employee of the Bureau of Development Services, and I know there are people in that bureau who are struggling. And, Commissioner Udaly, I want to thank you for spending time with them and helping them during this healing process. So thank you all. First item, please. Oh, I'm sorry. I have to read this. You know, can I not read this today? We all know what this says. Okay, thank you. First item, please.
 Item 565, request of Michael Withey to address council regarding micro-housing opportunities for affordable housing stock. Is Michael here today? We'll check him later and see if he comes in late. Next item, please. Item 566, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding First Amendment. Mr. Rogers, good morning. Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you, sir. My name is Craig Rogers.
 And I have a concern with regards to communication, First Amendment. And let's go to where the street fee, which had no vote, no oversight, no sunset. You could raise it any time, spin it on anything, go on forever. Outside of chambers at one time, Commissioner Steve Novick on TV said, it's the same people saying the same thing over and over again. Okay.
 Well, you know, if you perceive an injustice and you want to try and say something about it, you put a lot of skin in the game. And that's what we were doing. And eventually we defeated that. And you said something here. You said, spending every meeting hearing from the same five middle-aged white guys Wheeler said in an interview Wednesday. Now that sounds really similar. Yeah.
 to what Steve said about the same people saying the same thing over and over again. And you've got to respect and understand that there's going to be people that perceive an injustice and want to speak and communicate to you about something that might be different than what you think. But I've heard it said that if you want to see, listen. Hearing is a step towards vision. And in last Sunday's New York Times, it said research shows that people hear only between 30% to 35% of what is said to them.
 And from my experience down here, it's less than that at Portland City Council. I believe it's a culture of dismiss and deny down here and hide and seek. I've been involved enough to say that with experience. And I can point right to the examples, but with three minutes, I don't have the time. And our former mayor...
 said that Portland could be one of the greatest cities in the world, and I had said, and I will say it again, how about one of the safest? It's more appropriate right now than ever before. One of the safest. But then, where does the money go? A lot of times it's like a magic show down here. It just disappears. And an example that I saw was Karen Lee Batts. She dies in a parking structure from hypothermia in January. Okay.
 And then just a couple months down the road, two department heads are showing the door, but you throw $300,000 at them when Karen Blatt, there was no safety net set up for her for her $350 rent that she couldn't make. But then there goes three. Those are all public funds. There's an injustice there. So people are having a hard time getting through to communicate with staff. And it's obviously why. Because they don't want to get caught.
 Thank you. Next item, please. Item 567, request of Donna Cohen to address council regarding density and Eastmoreland Neighborhood Association's request for historic status. Good morning. Good morning, everybody. I'm Donna Cohen. Thank you for allowing me to be here. Thank you for being here. And thank you for opening the meeting the way you did, Mayor. Thank you. In a country where more and more people are separated by socioeconomic status,
 I would like to see Portland welcoming to everyone and providing housing to all income groups in all parts of the city. We know, for example, that lower income kids do better in mixed income schools. That's a really important aspect of this. I grew up in Boston. I appreciate historic architecture, but it shouldn't override the essential need for housing.
 I believe that sometimes the use of historic designation is, consciously or not, a method to eliminate some neighborhoods from sharing in solutions for affordable housing. Earlier this month, NPR had a segment called Section 8 Vouchers Help the Poor, but Only if Housing is Available. I realize Section 8 is not the same as affordable housing structures or units, but the principle here is the same.
 The voucher in the 70s was designed to be, I'm quoting from an article that I gave to you, to be a ticket out of poverty, allowing families to use it wherever they want. With a portable voucher, families can move to places with jobs, good schools, and low crime.
 Yet in Dallas, Texas, about 60% of people who get vouchers are unable to use them. Part of the problem is this. Quote, developer Terry Anderson says she ran into problems when trying to build an apartment complex with 13 units set aside specifically for voucher holders. The city actually called a public hearing for our property and about 250 angry residents showed up.
 Nicole Humphrey, who lives a couple of miles away from Anderson's development, says she's opposed to the project. In this neighborhood, most of us are stay-at-home moms with young kids. The lifestyle that goes with Section 8 is usually working single moms of people who are struggling to keep their heads above water. I feel so bad saying that, Chads. It's just not people who are the same class as us.
 When asked if others who did not have the same opportunities as her could live in her neighborhood, she said, the problem with that is I hear a lot of, oh, we haven't been given this or that, or we haven't been afforded things you have been afforded. In almost the same breath, this woman denies opportunities to some people and then turns around and says it annoys her when people complain about not having the same opportunities as her.
 the height of hypocrisy. It's incumbent upon Portland to develop affordable housing in every part of the city.
 I don't know what part of the solution, I mean, maybe we need a PR program, literally ads or something, that get this message across to the city that everybody can live everywhere and that every neighborhood should have affordable housing. I'm not sure how we go about that, but anyhow. And I hope it's okay that I added some personal PR at the back of my package, but...
 That's what I want to say. Can I just make a comment quickly? Yes. Nick, you have your new things on there. The green button there. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony today, and thank you for making such an eloquent statement about locating affordable housing in every neighborhood. We are criticized regularly for putting affordable housing in what's called high-opportunity neighborhoods. Right.
 Because it's more expensive. The dirt's more expensive. The housing is more expensive. And so some say we should look to the lowest cost housing, which means building in places that don't have the same opportunity. Right. And what we understand is that when we build affordable housing, say, in southwest Portland next to a high-achieving school, those kids have a better chance. Yes. And so...
 I completely, I think we embrace what you've said, and we thank you for making such an eloquent statement for everyone participating and helping solve the affordable housing crisis. So thank you. And thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Next item, please. Item 568, request of David Murphy to address council regarding right versus privilege to travel and protesters. Mr. Murphy, are you here? And did Michael Withey show up?
 Next item, please. Item 569, request of Mary Ann Schwab to address council regarding Washington High School Southeast Community Center. Good morning. Good morning. I'm in the land of Oz trying to find the answers here. Let me get this going here. That's my yellow brick road. I didn't have the ruby slippers. I've got my jacket.
 For the record, my name is Mary Ann Schwab. I'm here to support 100,000 households that live within 20 Southeast Dublin Coalition Neighborhood Associations. Good morning. My concerns are as such. In your letter to the Buckman neighborhood, Mayor, you asserted that the site had been appraised for $12 million and was identified as the primary reason the city could not pursue the city's option. Thank you.
 Surely Commissioner Amanda Fritz referring to the $12 million was not intentionally disgenuous in that letter. We have done our research. That land is $168 a square feet, which equates $7.5 million. I am here today to ask you, please, I'm begging you, stop the clock. This is what I feel needs to be done today. Exercise your right of first refusal. Today there are no encumbered.
 Memorandum of Understanding. The city's expired on Memorial Day. And the developers doesn't take effect until June 1st through Trick or Treat 2019. We can start all over. Unbeknownst to the PPR legal counsel, they let a second Memorandum of Understanding go based on that $12 million. That's his problem. And so I'm saying that on May 11th,
 Courtney Whiston, Portland Public Schools Interim Operations Officer, informed the Buckman neighborhood that PPS was willing to sell the property on contract. The city will have 60 days to obtain an appraisal, as will Portland Public Schools. On May 30th, the newly hired operations officer, Jerry Vinson, confirmed the city can secure the property on a contract by alerting his office today no later than 4 o'clock.
 Ted Mueller, that is exercising. You've got to tell them you want to exercise your governmental right of first refusal on this land. Looking not just at the mayor but also at the city commissioners, we need to open space for our children. We're in dire need of open space with the ballooning condos going up in and around 12th and Morrison and 12th and Stark. Is there anyone on city council can say we don't need green space? Mayor Wheeler?
 Our children have no voice but yours and mine. This land is their land well over a century and must be kept in perpetuity. On their behalf, I am begging you to alert Jerry Vinson. The city is exercising their governmental right of first refusal to purchase the 1.31-acre open field for parks as open space. Just as you please, I'm begging you, make the phone call today. Thank you. Thank you, Mary Ann.
 Stop the clock. Marianne, just so you know, we did go back after we were listed to the fact that the previous option had gone away and that the other one doesn't start until tomorrow. Whether it's $7.5 million or $12 million, we just don't have that money. It's very expensive for less than two acres of parkland. I challenge that. We've done our research. Thank you.
 And we have not, no one in parks has really tried for available funding to do this. We have had no champion. I can rattle off all the community or the parks commissioner's names, no one in this room has supported the construction of this unit. And when we in the committee, the WAML Advisory Committee members, more than one said we really want that land, that 1.31 acres, it was not the governance. It was not in the master plan in their notes.
 We want that land. It belongs to the children, and it needs to be kept open space. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please. The consent agenda. Oh, I'm sorry. And Michael Withey, did he show up? Very good. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? We've had a request for 584.
 Just 584? Yes, 584. Okay, so my understanding is that the individual who would be speaking on 584 would be Ken Rust. He is not available, so we will have to move 584 to next week, and I hope that is acceptable to whoever pulled that item. Mr. Lightning pulled it. Well, can you be here next week so that Ken can –
 All right, fine. You can do it right now. 584. Pull the item. 584. Come on up right now. Amend intergovernmental agreement for cost sharing of levy-ready Columbia expenses not covered by IFA loans to extend program, provide additional funding, broaden allowable expenses, and amend parties to agreement. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X.
 This is another reason why we have to be very careful when things are put on consent agenda and then the presenters are not here. Again, they should be here. They don't know if the items are going to be pulled or not. Now, moving on, the situation here where on the IGA, the state and Metro are going to join the IGA on the cost sharing of the levy. Now, when we did Loan 1...
 and loan two, there were certain expenses that would be covered within the Oregon Infrastructure Finance Authority. Now, at this point, there's a lot of additional expenses. They're asking for another one-year time frame extension. There's going to be a lot more engineering analysis. There's going to be a tremendous amount of cost here. Again, from my position...
 The levy will not be certified or accredited. And I state my position is that we currently have a breach of the current levy. We currently have two travel lanes on top of the levy, which is Marine Drive. That is a breach of the levy. You will not meet New Orleans standards. My position is that we need to focus on the location of the airport
 We need to look at getting financing, infrastructure financing, to rebuild the levee in that location. And we need to understand, in the past, the river itself on the water side of the levee has reached the crown. That is very dangerous. We've noticed that in the past. That is the history. We cannot take a chance anymore with losing our air travel.
 Losing the whole airport. Losing all the businesses surrounding the airport. And yes, loss of life if we do not evacuate in a reasonable time frame. So again, my position...
 We need to quit looking at this from a nickel and dime type analysis, understand using New Orleans levy standards, and rebuild the levy and go for the federal funding to do it. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any further public testimony on this item?
 I will do my level best to explain this in the absence of the staff member who actually administers these contracts. It's my understanding that the city entered into an agreement, a multi-jurisdictional agreement, including that takes place around the levy-ready Columbia table. The contract is reimbursable.
 There was an understanding around that table that there would be administrative and other expenses that could not be calculated in advance. They left this opportunity open for us to allocate those additional administrative costs.
 to the various jurisdictions involved in the levy-ready Columbia. Our share of about an extra million dollars in costs is about $211,000. This authorizes us to be able to spend that $211,000 that will be reimbursable through, I believe it is a federal contract or through a federal program. Yeah, I'm sorry, IFA loans. Okay.
 under the Intergovernmental Agreement. The policy question you raised, I think, is a really good legitimate question, which is to what standards are we building the levies and whatnot. So I would be happy to entertain that policy conversation. I think it's a good one, and at this point, I've only had the privilege of attending one of the Levy Ready Columbia board meetings, but I think it's a good and a fair question, and it's one I will continue to take up.
 And I believe, Commissioner, you daily, you sit on, do you sit on levy? Okay. I'm making that one up. But at any rate, your presence is with me there apparently. So it's a good policy question. But as far as this contract, I think it's ready to roll. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Fish? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Here. The consent agenda is adopted. My understanding is the first item on the – never mind. Go back to time certain, 945. So item 570, please.
 Proclaim May 31, 2017 to be a day of celebration for Crow's Shadow Institute of the Arts' 25th anniversary. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. So we're going to invite two honored guests forward. Carl Davis, the Executive Director of Crow's Shadow Institute of the Arts, and Charles Froelich, Crow's Shadow Board President and a local gallery owner. Thank you.
 Today we're celebrating the 25th anniversary of Crow's Shadow Institute of the Arts, an icon in Oregon arts and culture. Crow's Shadow is a center of artistic and educational opportunities for Native Americans, located in the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation. And they have an international reputation for outstanding printmaking.
 Perhaps most importantly, they host workshops to teach native arts like weaving and beadwork, sharing this knowledge, culture, and heritage with future generations. We're honored to have Carl and Charles with us, a number of board members, and friends of Crow's Shadow who they'll introduce. But we're going to pause for a moment, and the mayor is going to issue a proclamation. Mayor? Very good. Thank you, Commissioner. Whereas for 25 years, Crow's Shadow Institute of the Arts has provided a creative hub for
 for artistic, educational, social, and economic opportunities for Native American people. Whereas James Lavador, Walla Walla, one of Oregon's most celebrated artists, founded Crow's Shadow on the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, which has the only master printer in the United States located on a reservation.
 and whereas the Artist in Residence program at Crow's Shadow is internationally recognized for printmaking and has hosted over 50 artists, including many from Portland.
 Whereas Crow's Shadow also hosts creative indigenous arts workshops to continue the rich tradition of weaving, basketry, beadwork, and other native arts that reflect the history and culture of our region. And whereas prints by Crow's Shadow's artists have been showcased in museums throughout the Northwest and the nation.
 Whereas Portland-based artist Marie Watt described her career as being shaped by a web of connections, friendships, and associations in which Crow's Shadow Institute is the epicenter. And whereas Crow's Shadow is an established Oregon cultural organization and serves as a resource for creative people in northeastern Oregon and southeastern Washington,
 And whereas Crow's Shadow uses the creative arts as a tool for positive transformation by teaching local tribal youth and helping to build and sustain artistic careers. And whereas Oregon is richer for the many creative partnerships that exist between its urban centers and its communities throughout the state.
 And whereas Portland is proud of its many ties to Crow's Shadow, now therefore I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim Wednesday, May 31, 2017 to be Day of Celebration for Crow's Shadow Institute of the Arts' 25th Anniversary in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Thank you, Portland City Council. And thank you to the wonderful people of the city of Portland, my hometown. My name is Carl Davis, and I am the Executive Director of Crow Shadow Institute of the Arts. It is my honor to be here today to represent this amazing independent nonprofit art center. Located on the Confederated Tribes of Yuma-Tila Indian Reservation near Pendleton, Oregon...
 2017 marks the 25 years of providing a creative conduit to hundreds of local, regional, and national contemporary Native American artists. Although we are located on the other side of the state, Crow's Shadow has worked with many Portland-based artists over the years, including Marie Watt, Pat Boas, Victor Maldonado, Wendy Redstar, Storm Tharp, Sherrod Yonker, and Lillian Pitt.
 We also have strong relationships with Portland institutions, such as the Pacific Northwest College of Art, the Portland Art Museum, the Oregon College of Art and Craft, the Regional Arts and Cultural Council, and many other local art galleries. And this city hall, the walls, sorry, Corsado prints adorn the walls in the city hall here, so thank you.
 Our mission has been made possible by the generous support of numerous Oregon and Portland area foundations, such as the James F. and Marion L. Miller Foundation, the Meyer Memorial Trust, the Ford Family Foundation, the Native Arts and Culture Foundation, and the Oregon Community Foundation, to name just a few.
 I would like to thank my board of directors, the dedicated staff and volunteers of Crow Shadow, and all of the unwavering support from individual art collectors and donors over the years. I would also like to personally thank Commissioner Nick Fish for taking the time to visit Crow Shadow and for his continuing support and advocacy on behalf of Crow Shadow.
 It is an honor and pleasure to be here today and to have Crow Shadow recognized in this illustrious manner. We are humbled by the occasion and look forward to working with the City of Portland for the next 25 years and beyond. Thank you. Carl, before we hear from our next speaker, I understand we have four or five board members, and since they're not speaking but they're here, could we ask them to stand and just be recognized to the board members that are here? And staff members, too, please. And staff. Let's give them a round of applause. Thank you for joining us today. Charles, welcome.
 Commissioner Fish, Mayor Wheeler, thank you very much. Thank you. My comments are brief. It's an honor to volunteer at Crow's Shadow, and I feel like being a part of Crow's Shadow makes me so proud to be an Oregonian. The communication between the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indians and the nation, the region, the nation, we don't live in a vacuum, and Crow's Shadow is a magnet for people to come here
 and a beacon for the artists of the state to be found and seen across the country. So I feel like Crow's Shadow has done such a service, not just to the Northwest, Northeast population,
 part of the state, but to the whole region. And I'm honored and I sincerely appreciate your recognition. If I could, just a couple of questions. Carl, last summer when my family was in Europe, Al Solheim and I took a road trip to Eastern Oregon and we spent some time at Crow's Shadow and we had a chance to visit with James Lavador and visit his studio. And so my question is for people in Portland that want to come out and visit Crow's Shadow, what do you recommend?
 I recommend coming out to visit. We're open Monday through Friday, 9 to 5, to the public. And we have a gallery that shows work on a regular basis. And our master printer is usually working in the studio with either an artist or working on prints that he's currently publishing. One of the things that I would suggest is sometimes –
 we have official delegations to go to Pendleton around the Roundup or for other events. And Crow Shadow is actually very close to Pendleton. So you can go to the Roundup and also go see incredible art while you're in that part of the state. And the Pendleton woolen mills, too. Okay.
 A calendar date to note is September 22nd at the Hallie Ford Museum of Art in Salem. They will be presenting our 25th anniversary exhibition and launching the book that presents our history. And throughout the year, there are galleries across the city, PDX Contemporary, Elizabeth Leach,
 The Ogden Gallery, my gallery, Froelich Gallery, and I believe Upfor will be presenting artists that have printed at Crow's Shadow, among other galleries. And tonight, I open a show at my gallery, but if you go to any of these galleries throughout the year, you'll find this work. Well, tonight is a big night, and I hope some of us can join you at that event. And Charles, while we have you, the Regional Arts and Culture Council has put together quite a collection of art.
 And we have some pieces of outstanding Native American art. Who are some of the artists that we celebrate that are in the city's public collection? Oh, Wendy Red Star, Marie Watt, Jim Lavador, Rick Bartow, Joe Feddersen, Sherrod Yonker. Susan Shushebs. It's a long list. Whitney Minthorn, James Luna, so...
 That's wonderful. And I think at some point our hope is actually to get all the works by Native American artists and do a special show at City Hall so that the public can take in the art that we've invested in. Mayor, we have a proclamation, and can we get a picture with our honored guests? Sure. So if we can have everyone come forward to the front. Thank you very much.
 You can't have my Joe Petters. Thank you. Thank you all for coming. It's really good to see you again. It's a pleasure. Thanks very much. Nice job. Thank you. Charles, thank you. See you. Certain times. And by the way, if our friends from Crow's Shadow have other events to go to, we will not be offended if you leave, but thank you for joining us. So, colleagues, we have...
 Our next time certain is not until 1020, so we cannot start on that. The first regular agenda item, 589, we won't have our individual here to speak on that until 1030. Question, Commissioner Fish, do you have the people present that you need for 590? I think so, Mayor. Let me double check. For 590, no. Okay.
 Let's go to the second readings. Call 591, please. 591, amend fee schedules for tree permits. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Well, as noted last week, we will be looking at getting full cost recovery on tree permits in the next go-around. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 592. Aye.
 Authorized contract with Carrillo Engineers, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $291,852 for design and construction support services for the Conduit 2 trestle upgrades project. Any further conversations? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 593. Aye.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Council Crest roof replacement project at an estimated cost of $550,000. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. This ordinance is adopted. And just so people, these are second readings, so we've already had the deliberation testimony on this in case people are wondering why we're just flying through these. Next item, 594, please. Thank you.
 Authorize an agreement with Clackamas County in the amount of $210,425 to acquire a 30-acre conservation and access easement. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Let's see. We don't have a 598. Yes. Call 598, please. Aye.
 Authorize $100,000 for the establishment of the Portland in the Streets Community Grant Program to award grants through a competitive process for the period of July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. The money for this is coming from the gas tax, and it's really a wonderful innovation that the Bureau of Transportation is trying to get more of its ass into the community. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 That makes sense. Say aye. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. So we've got 607 and 608. 607 and 608. Would you take 607 back for one more? And what do you want?
 Yeah, I think we can vote on 608. I just think we can have 607 go back to office. Yeah, that's fine. That's fine. Let me, yeah, that's already going to be held over. So just to clarify, item 607, I'm just getting a little bit ahead of myself for a moment, and 608 are both going to be held over for one week. So then we have 605. All right, 605, call the roll, or read the item and call the roll, sorry. 605.
 Approve fiscal year 2017-18 cost of living adjustments to pay rates for nonrepresented classifications and elected officials. Specify the effect upon employees in the classifications involved and provide for payment. Call the roll, please. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Ms.
 Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Mayor, can I make a proposal? Commissioner Fish. 571 has a 10-20 time, but there's no testimony to be taken. It is simply to adopt findings. And I move to suspend the rules and take it up now. There is no testimony and nothing for the public to add. It is simply a ministerial action of having the lawyers present the... I certainly would agree with that unless legal counsel has any problems. Yes.
 If the council were to take a vote to suspend the rules, the council could proceed with consideration. Is there a second to Commissioner Fish's motion? Second. There's a second. Any further discussion? Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. I mean, no, sorry. I got you still there. Respectfully, no. No.
 Wheeler. Aye. The rules are... Oh, I'm sorry. I was on the motion to suspend the rules. Sorry. Yes. You're going too far. You're good. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, I'm good with that. Sorry. Yes, she's good with that. Okay. Yes. Aye. The rules are suspended. Please call item 571. Do we need a motion? You have to read the item first. Oh, sorry. Okay.
 571, appeal of TMT Development Company against the Portland Design Commission's design review decision of approval with conditions in the west end sub area of the downtown sub district of Central City Plan District.
 At 901-919 Southwest Taylor Street, LU16265-5061-DZM. So we had extensive testimony and presentations on this item previously. So at this point, I move that the council grant the appeal approving the application with conditions and adopt the findings. Second. There is a motion. There is a second by Commissioner Fish. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Mayor, we did have an extensive hearing on this, and for me, this was a close call. But I think we got it right, and I appreciated the testimony, and I also appreciated the staff report and the guidance they gave us as we worked through this issue. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. I also thought it was a close call, and so I opted to go with the design commission. No. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The appeal is approved with stated conditions. Commissioner Fish. Can we take a five-minute break? We're going to have to take a ten-minute break because the next time certain isn't until 1025. So we are in recess until 1025. Just a moment. All right. Thank you, everybody, for your patience. We have...
 Commissioner Fish would like to revisit item number 594. Commissioner Fish? Mayor, I move to reconsider. Item 594. Second. Carla, we need to... I'm sorry, could you call the vote on 594, please? This for reconsideration? Yes. Excuse me. Excuse me. This is a disruption in violation of council rules.
 supremacy. This is a violation of council rules. If you continue to disrupt, you'll be asked to leave. And we'd rather not have you leave. We'd rather you stay and have the opportunity here. But you let me have a drink before you take me in my handcuffs. Folks, why don't we take another five minute recess? Police don't mean to beat me up for the last three years. Why would you do that?
 No, they need to understand. It's like ridiculous. And we're supposed to be alright with this. This shit is not right here. I don't have her here. Take a seat guys. If you want to stay, you have to take a seat. I don't have her here. I don't have her here. I don't have her here. I don't have her here. I don't have her here. I don't have her here. I don't have her here. I don't have her here.
 I knew it! I knew it! You did? Oh, yeah. I should. Oh, yeah. So, I'm with the girl. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. Back to this. Back to this. Where's the – so, Nick, we'll just do this real quick. You made the motion. I seconded it. Where were we? So we're out of recess now. We're voting on the motion to reconsider. Very good. Call the roll, please.
 But we can't vote on the next one until on the- Yeah, until we have Commissioner Udaly. But I'll make the amendment and then we'll- So speak very slowly until Commissioner Udaly gets here. Please call the roll. Okay. This is a motion to reconsider? Correct. Fish? Aye. Fritz? Aye. I mean, aye. Wheeler? Aye. The motion is reconsidered. So, Mayor, I make the following motion. Okay.
 that we amend, I'm going to read this as slowly as possible so it's clear. Very good. Thank you. That we move to amend item 594 to add an emergency clause for the following reason. Quote, the council declares an emergency exists because the public interest would be harmed by any delay in acquiring the authorized conservation easement. Therefore, this ordinance shall be in full force in effect from and after its passage by council. Thank you.
 I will second that motion after thinking about it very carefully. We have a motion on the table by Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fritz, your staff was just wonderful in helping to craft this language and working it through the building. I thank you for your leadership. I expect nothing less, Commissioner. Very good. So I move the amendment.
 Very good. And Commissioner Fish, would you explain for Commissioner Udaly what amendment you have just made so that she knows what she's voted on? I've moved to put an emergency clause on item 594. I could not have filled that space any longer. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. On 594? Yes. I've already voted on that. We did. We reconsidered it and now it's an emergency. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. No, no. It's been amended. Now, Mayor, I move the ordinance. Oh, thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. You're right. You move the ordinance. As amended. As amended. Is there a second? Second. Second. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Aye.
 Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you, Commissioner. Mayor, just by way of housekeeping, and it's obviously your decision, we have a time certain at 1025 with the Mount Hood Regulatory Commission, and we also have our friends from the Portland Timbers that are here. Those are the next two items in whichever sequence you choose. Let's take them in order. 571, please. Two. And Carla, while we're at it. 572. You want to start with 572? That's the one you meant.
 You want the cable one first. I don't care. So either one. Well, Mayor, the proclamation with the timbers is 589. So it's your call whether we do the timbers first. Oh, you're right. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Let's do the timbers first. Since there are many of them here, let's help them get back to their day. 589? 589. 589.
 Proclaimed June 4 through 10, 2017, to be Portland Timbers, Thorns FC, and T2 Stand Together Week. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to invite up our honored guests, Captain Jack Jewsberry, Stand Together Ambassador, Jordan Farwell, Community Relations Manager, and Timber Joey, America's most famous team mascot. Would the three of you please come forward? Thank you.
 The Mayor is about to read a proclamation, but if I could just say as an introduction, we are honored to have you here, all of you, especially Captain Jack Dewsbury, who had such a wonderful career until he retired in 2016 and now serves as such a great ambassador for the team. Colleagues, this is the sixth annual Timbers Stand Together Week, a week of service in our community.
 This year, the Timbers, the Thorns, and T2 will support local, mission-driven nonprofits like ERCO, the Oregon Food Bank, Solve, Zanger Farm, and many others. We're proud of all the Timbers, of what the Timbers and Thorns do in our community, and today the mayor is going to issue a proclamation. Mayor Wheeler. Yes, thank you for being here. Whereas the city of Portland is proud to be home to the professional soccer teams, the Portland Timbers, the Portland Thorns FC, and Timbers II. Thank you.
 Whereas the Timbers, Thorns, and T2 are committed to giving back to our community and promoting civic engagement through their community platform, Stand Together. Whereas the City of Portland is proud to partner with the Timbers, Thorns, and T2 in organizing the sixth anniversary of Stand Together Week, a week of community service from June 4th through June 10th, 2017.
 And whereas approximately 1,000 stand-together volunteers, including Timbers, Thorns, and T2 players, the Timbers Army, the Rose City Riveters, coaches, staff, sponsors, and community members will come together for a week of service.
 And whereas volunteers will participate in 30 community events and projects throughout Portland, including building homes, removing ivy and other invasive species from local parks, restoring children's books, creating healing gardens, and leading soccer clinics.
 And whereas Stand Together will support local, mission-driven nonprofits, including Active Children Portland, Children's Book Bank, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization, the Oregon Food Bank, Playworks, Solve, Virginia Garcia Memorial Health Center, and Zanger Farm.
 And whereas Stand Together Week is a call to action by the City, the Portland Timbers, Portland Thorns FC, and Timbers II, and our community partners to inspire people to give back through community service. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 4th through 10th, 2017, to be Portland Timbers.
 Thorns FC and T2 stand together week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you. Welcome. So, Mayor, we're going to turn first to Jack Dewsbury, who had a distinguished career with the Timbers and, as we know, in 2011 was named to the MLS All-Star team. It's an honor to have you, Captain Jack, if you could take it away.
 Yeah, thank you guys so much. Really appreciate you guys having us. As a player, this was a huge week for us to get out in the community and thank a community that gives so much to us week in, week out.
 in the stadium. So now to be on the other side of it, on the front office, it's a big, important week for us as well, where everybody gets out, contributes in different ways, and to get out into Portland with the players, with the front office, and with our fans. Timbers Army comes out and droves and really supports this. And so for you guys to recognize that, we appreciate it. We're excited about it, and there are a lot of opportunities, I think, to get out there and
 timbers.com stand together there's opportunities for people to sign up and volunteer to be a part of these different projects throughout the city thank you very much we go to timber joey well thank you again for having us
 Thank you again for having us. It's good to see you again, Mayor Wheeler. Good to see you too. It's been about 80 miles since the last time I saw you, I think. And it's good to be in here in front of you guys again today. And we really appreciate the proclamation, and we really encourage everybody in the city of Portland to not only get out for this Stand Together Week, but get out and volunteer in the community and make our community a better place, as we're trying to do.
 Thank you. Thank you. Jordan, would you like to say a few words? Yeah. Just to reiterate, thank you guys so much for having us today. It's really exciting to have it officially proclaimed. We're all really excited to get started next week. We're going to have all of our athletes on all three teams at 30 projects throughout the seven days. So we invite anybody that would like to join. As Jack said, there's still a lot of volunteer opportunities available at timbers.com. Thank you.
 Thank you. Very good. Would you like to say a few words? I think just echo what everybody else said. We're so grateful to be here and to have you guys acknowledge the work that we're doing and getting everybody involved in the community. We hope everyone can join us. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Timber Joey, let me give you this proclamation the mayor has signed. And could you again tell us where we can find information on the website about all the events? Sure.
 Yeah, so if you go to timbers.com slash standtogether, I believe there's a dash between the stand and together. There's a list of all of the available projects, and it will take you to Hands On Portland for you to kind of peruse what projects are available, the whole calendar, and see what's open and sign up. Terrific. So it's all right there. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you all for being here.
 While we are teeing up item 572, Carla, I overlooked one item. Since we are holding over items 607 and 608, those still need to be read into the record, and I neglected that. Could you read those two items, please? 607, approve rental rehabilitation conditional grant product guidelines. And without objection, that's been held over until next week. And 608? 608.
 Amend relocation assistance regulations in affordable housing preservation and Portland renter protections. And without objection, that's also been rolled over to next week. And so the next item will be 572. Approve the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission's fiscal year 2017-18 budget. Very good. I will turn this over to the Office of Community Technology. Thank you.
 And the wizards therein. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Leif Hansen. I'm a citizen appointee by you to the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. I'm joined by Joy Amelchuk. She's our program manager here to help answer questions.
 I'm here to highlight a couple of the many MHCRC activities over the past year and to seek your approval of the fiscal year 2017-18 fund budget, the MHCRC budget. I believe you have both the budget or the MHCRC's activity report, the annual report, and the proposed budget in front of you. As a reminder, the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission is an intergovernmental partnership
 Among Gresham, Fairview, Portland, Troutdale, Wood Village, and Multnomah County. Each of these jurisdictions appoints citizen representatives to the commission. The MHCRC has oversight, enforcement, and public benefit responsibilities for the cable services franchises with the cities and the county. Portland has two cable service franchises with Comcast and CenturyLink.
 As it points out in the annual report, the MHCRC deals with ever-changing technology to support community needs. For local authority over public rights of way and compensation, a consumer watchdog platform for community voices, affordable broadband networks for schools, libraries, and local governments, and local solutions for addressing digital equity issues. Over this past year, the MHCRC has provided many services to our communities and residents,
 The MHCRC continued its work with public school districts under the TechSmart initiative for student success. Reynolds, David Douglas, Portland Public, Park Rose, and Gresham Barlow have active grants. We are in the process with Centennial School District for its first TechSmart grant. Thus far, the MHCRC is over $9 million into the longer-term investment goal of $19 million.
 About 185 classroom teachers are now supported by resources provided under the TechSmart initiative. The Community Technology Competitive Grant Round funded seven new grants with community organizations. These grants leveraged over $1.6 million in matching resources. Many grants are focused on assisting residents and youth in acquiring technology skills important for employment in today's economy.
 For example, the MHCRC Community Grants is supporting access to opportunity at the Rockwood Library, Friends of the Children East County, Wisdom of the Elders, the North Northeast Business Association, and Open School East. Affordable broadband has become more and more critical to our local public institutions. The MHCRC is leading a long-term network planning effort in partnership with 18 public agencies within Multnomah County.
 This partnership for the current institutional network provides high-speed, affordable broadband connectivity to 321 schools, libraries, and public agencies throughout the county. The MHCRC provided funding and franchise enforcement support to OpenSignal. This past year, OpenSignal produced over 7,000 hours of original local programming. They also trained nearly 800 residents in digital media and literacy skills.
 The MHCRC addressed consumer protection issues both broadly and with individual subscribers. For example, the MHCRC worked with the cable companies on issues related to clear information on subscribers' bills, service line extensions, phone answering standards, and service fees. We assisted in the resolution of 357 complaints from local cable TV subscribers. Now to move on to the money.
 I'm happy to report that once again the MHCRC received a clean audit for fiscal year 2015-16. The full audit document is available on the MHCRC's website. Also wanted to note a couple of trends we're seeing in cable revenues. On page 9 of the annual report, you'll see two graphs that show these trends. Here's the first one.
 The number of cable subscribers grew consistently between the years of 2006 to 2012. However, since then, subscriber numbers have been declining. Despite this decline in subscribers, cable companies' revenues from cable services have steadily increased.
 showing a flattening only in the past two years in the East Multnomah County areas. This is primarily due to cable companies raising rates and offering more services and program packages. The MHCRC is closely watching these trends as they have possible future implications for franchise fee revenues for local governments and for revenues that support MHCRC community grants and other programs.
 Coming up in fiscal year 17-18, the MHCRC is engaged in a future-focused planning. Considering rapidly evolving technology and public policy and our community's increasing reliance on availability of broadband, the MHCRC is turning its sights onto the future. We intend to work with you and your city staff and our communities to identify needs and opportunities for our broadband future.
 The budget includes funds to assist the MHCRC in this endeavor. The MHCRC proposed 17-18 fund budget is included in your meeting packet. Annual allocations from each member jurisdiction collectively funds about half the MHCRC's total operating budget. Another way to view it is the MHCRC member jurisdictions spend about 5% of the collected cable franchise fees on regulation and program-related administration.
 Portland's annual allocation for fiscal year 17-18 is $295,827. The East County Cities and Multnomah Counties allocation is $151,327.
 The remaining portion of the MHCRC budget is funded by other resources, mostly to administer the dedicated capital fee revenues and related programs, such as the MHCRC community grants, the INET, and OpenSignal. Before closing, I want to thank the Mayor and Council for supporting this countywide partnership among the jurisdictions since 1993.
 With this support, the MHCRC has been very successful at convening community members and public agencies to steward and creatively leverage resources and regulatory authority to amplify the benefit for all. Over the coming year, we are excited to work with you to explore and discover how to leverage our success as we adapt to the evolving needs of our city and communities. In addition, I wanted to thank the Council for its unanimous support of the Office for Community Technology Budget Note requesting...
 a review for a better fit within the city's bureau systems. And to conclude, I respectfully request that the Portland Council approve the fiscal year 2017-18 proposed MHCRC fund budget. Thank you. We appreciate the presentation. Commissioner? Commissioner Fish? Mayor, I have a question. In addition to the budget note that talks about where this fits within our form of government,
 There's, I think, at least one or two other questions that came up through our budget process that I'd like to solicit your thoughts about. And one was, what's the future of open signal? And what in the future is the appropriate relationship between the commission and open signal? And I make that question as open-ended as possible because I'd like to begin a conversation and get your thoughts on that.
 So, we have an agreement, of course, with OpenSignal, and really it is to provide grant funds to them, but the operation funds come directly from the city.
 And so it's clearly important. There's a strong relationship between the technology that the cable companies provide and the open access to their infrastructure that the open signal also requires.
 You know, perhaps, Julie, you want to comment on this? Or we also have an OpenSignal representative here. So according to page 8 of your annual report, and by the way, it's an excellent document. Thank you. Very clear. Thank you. It lists the cable franchise fee disbursements. So it says about $865,000 flows through you to OpenSignal. Is that correct? It is correct. Okay.
 Now, OpenSignal operates as a freestanding 501c3 nonprofit, correct? That's correct. So other than providing the operating support from franchise fees, beyond that, what is the role that you play overseeing OpenSignal? So –
 I would have to, I think, defer that question to the IGA that we have between us and the city and the contract between us and OpenSignal. I'm not as familiar with the details of that to probably comment. So this may not be – I'm not suggesting this is the time and the place to negotiate any terms of the IGA, but –
 A question that the council is going to be taking up is what is the future of OpenSignal and where are they going to be in five or ten years? And obviously our interest, based on what we've heard from the community, is we want them to be a strong and thriving organization. But the question is how much independence do they have and what is their current status and what might be their future status?
 I don't actually have an answer to the question, but because this is our chance annually to hear from you, I want to put the marker on the table, Mayor. In the Mayor's budget, he restored the 5% cut that was otherwise Open Signal was going to take, and I think that was in part in response to strong community support for their work. And so...
 as we support them with the franchise fees and with our dollars and with the community. What does that look like in the next five to 10 years? And I would invite us to open that conversation up as part of sort of what's your core mission, what should we be doing?
 And how can both of us help OpenSignal continue to grow and prosper? Yeah, we would encourage the conversation. We've had a lot of it at the commission as well. And we know that technology plays a big part. There's a lot of changing patterns in the use of video.
 that I think has a relationship as part of the future of OpenSignal. And we also know that OpenSignal's current budget is highly dependent on the city and the commission for its sustainability. And I know they've made strides to become more independent. And so I think that we encourage that, and I think that's an important conversation to have. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you. Any other comments? Very good. Please call the roll. We have public testimony. I'm sorry, public testimony. Is there public testimony on this item? Charles Bridgetrain-Johnson signed it. All right. Thank you. Sorry about that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for a great presentation. It was very thorough. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. Before the record, my green light is on. There we go. Charles Bridgetrain-Johnson. So it's interesting that Commissioner Fish raised the question he did
 And of course, this being Asian American Month, we get to talk about two awesome women. Evelyn Liu, I'm assuming that I got the pronunciation correct. She's with the Asian Pacific America Chamber of Commerce. It's been one or two weeks since we had a pano here for Asian American Pacific Islander Month. And...
 Carol Studenmund. Why would we say Carol Studenmund here? Well, she's only the chair of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. How do we know this? Because when we go to opensignalpdx.org, whoop, there it is. So there is, you know, obviously some cross-pollination here between MHCRC and the Open Signal. And I just think it's odd that in a presentation...
 but we have that much overlapping of the board that that isn't right there on the table for people who are watching in public access. I'm not saying it's good or bad. Either way, it makes sense that we didn't hear a particular number. The percentage of the open signal financing that comes out of the cable regulatory fees and then anything that comes through either general revenue or other special programs out of the city's budget.
 So I have full confidence in all the commissioners and their staff, especially Commissioner Udales. And I'm sure those issues are being dealt with, but I just think that the way for these places to thrive and what they say their mission is, is for community involvement. And the more you know, the more you can do.
 And that would include going over to MLK and walking right into Portland, what used to be Portland Community Media and is now Open Signal. And see how, when you say...
 Why has Comcast actually got more money with less subscribers? A tiny, tiny, tiny part of that is that there's some awesome equipment to make awesome community videos on MLK just north of the Nike store. And it's totally open. I think we've got OpenSignal on the agenda actually coming up also as an agenda item. Yeah.
 one thing that we maybe do need to have some more concern about is as was covered on page 9 of their report in their oral presentation we don't know consumer sentiment about cable bills we know consumer sentiment about subscribership because it's going down but the people who do like it are willing to pay more so hopefully hopefully
 And since this is for the cable regulatory, there maybe should be some outside study, but maybe also national media groups are presenting that information, so we don't need to spend any money to get better answers on what to expect revenue-wise. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner, any further comments, questions? Please call the roll. Fish? Well, I want to thank Commissioner Hanson for joining us today and for an outstanding presentation. Thank you.
 The written report lists all the grant making, and it's very impressive. And we ask a lot of these citizen volunteers, and that includes administering a grant program and making sure the money gets to people who need it.
 And we appreciate this report. And I know that in prior years, the council asked for more information about your financial stewardship, and that's reflected in pages 8 and 9 of the report. And so I really appreciate the transparency, and I'm honored to vote aye and accept this report. Eudaly? Aye. Fritz? Very much appreciate all the work of the people on the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. Thank you, Commissioner Leif Hansen, for being here today. That presentation was fantastic.
 I'd obviously had a lot of time gone into it. In fact, we're so grateful we approved your reappointment in the consent agenda. So thank you for all the time that you and other volunteers put into this. Thank you.
 Wheeler. Yeah, thank you, Leif and Julian. Again, I always appreciate it when we have folks who are willing to step up and serve long hours on these commissions, and often it can be very technical. I'm particularly appreciative of the intentional efforts that you've made around broadband access and digital equity, and I think those are areas where we need to continue to push hard in the future.
 You're in the right place on the right commission to be able to help us accomplish that important goal. So thank you for that. Aye, the ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Item 590, require short-term rental platforms to collect an additional $2 per room night for housing and homelessness initiatives and expand the tourism improvement district to include short-term rental platforms. Commissioner Udaly?
 Am I turning this one over to you? I think Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish. Yeah. My staff told me to turn it over to you, but maybe what we should do is just say that we're delighted to bring this forward and ask Thomas Lanham to walk us through the resolution. Very good. Thanks, Commissioners. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Thomas Lanham. I'm the Director of the City's Revenue Division. The short-term rental platforms have been having an impact on housing availability in Portland recently.
 The Portland Housing Bureau has estimated that up to 1,000 housing units that would otherwise be available for long-term lease or purchase are effectively removed from the market by the short-term rental platforms. In 2016, Airbnb published a report stating that the impact was much less than that. And while opinions vary as to the magnitude, clearly there is some impact.
 In recognition of that impact, the resolution before you today directs the Revenue Division of the City Attorney's Office to draft an ordinance requiring short-term rental platforms to collect an additional $2 per booking night to be dedicated to housing and homeless initiatives and to help mitigate the impact that short-term rentals have on the housing market generally. There are at least two other cities in the U.S. that have implemented similar per-night type fees.
 The resolution also directs the drafting of an ordinance to expand the Portland Tourism Improvement District to include the short-term rental platforms. When the district was created by the City Council in 2012, the intent was that all large transient lodging establishments, defined as hotels with 50 or more rooms, should remit an additional license fee calculated at 2% of taxable rents.
 The short-term rental platforms were in their infancy in 2012, but have grown to the point where they rival and, in most cases, overshadow the very largest traditional hotels and, as a matter of fairness, should also contribute to the district. District revenues are remitted to travel Portland to promote the city of Portland as a tourism destination and, therefore, should provide a multiplying effect on the local economy and lodging demand generally.
 It is noteworthy that the Tourism Improvement District license fee is typically passed on to the guest, and we anticipate short-term rental platforms may elect to do the same. These code changes are not expected to have a material impact on tourism demand in Portland. It's been five years since the Tourism Improvement District was implemented, and in those five years, Portland's hotel-motel tax receipts have continued to break year-over-year records.
 Compared to similar cities, the overall hotel tax and fee environment remains very reasonable in Portland. If the council passes the resolution today, the Revenue Division will provide a draft of the implementing ordinance to interested short-term rental platforms to provide for feedback and ensure that timing and the framework is workable for them. And I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Mayor, can I put this into context? Sure.
 First, I want to thank Thomas Lanham for bringing this forward, and a number of these components are ideas that came out of the Revenue Division. Second, one of the things we sometimes hear from our critics is that the actions we're taking around the so-called sharing economy somehow express our antipathy towards some of these emerging technologies.
 And I want to be very clear what the guiding principles have been in a number of actions the council has taken. And they are tax fairness and public safety. Those are two cornerstone values that the city needs to stand behind. And to put this resolution in the context of other council actions, council authorized 26-194 to be placed on the ballot.
 The voters overwhelmingly adopted 26-194, and that gives us a new tool in defining, quote, operator of these establishments broadly enough to cover the Internet operators.
 Second, this council has adopted a resolution and directed that an ordinance be brought forward giving the Revenue Bureau subpoena a power to obtain the names and addresses of hosts from a number of these Internet companies. With that information, it is our intent to make sure they're paying their fair share of taxes and that the units are safe for the people that actually occupy them.
 Third, the city is about to sit down and undertake negotiations with HomeAway for the purposes of attempting to bring them into full compliance with our laws, including to collect arrears from taxes that they have not paid in the past.
 And finally, today, this measure, recognizing that there is an adverse impact on the housing crisis by taking these units offline, proposes that we add a $2 per night fee and that an ordinance come back to us for that purpose. In totality, the actions we've taken...
 recognize that with changes in technology, people are increasingly going to be booking units using the Internet, their computer or their phone, and technology provides convenient ways of doing so. Our interest is making sure that everybody who provides a room for rent in our community plays by the same set of rules and that no consumer is put in harm's way. And that's what the totality of these measures seek to achieve.
 Thanks, Commissioner. Any public testimony on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet. So I'll just say this. First of all, I want to thank you. Come on up. While you're coming up, please come on up. I want to thank Commissioner Fish and the rest of the council for focusing on short-term rentals and promoting Portland as a destination.
 I think this is a solid resolution. I think it will help from the development of the tourism industry here. Taking a step back, though, I think that we can do much better working with this industry to develop appropriate guidelines and regulations. And like Commissioner Fish, I think we need to get ahead of that rather than react to things that have already happened. I've directed my staff to work with BPS.
 over the next year on the short-term rental code to determine what's working well, what isn't working well, and how we need to resolve these issues.
 So I want to thank everybody for working on this and supporting it, and I hope resolving some of the conflicts that currently exist around short-term rattles. And Commissioner Fish, I want to thank you in particular for your hard work on this issue. Mary, do you want to start? Sure. If that's okay. Great. Hi, Mary Seip. Nice to see you all again. I'd like to just kind of echo what Mayor Wheeler just said about this, and also...
 kind of bring to light something that's happening that really makes me happy to see this. Just recently I found out, I think most of us think about these rentals as people renting their home or their spare bedroom through Airbnb and that it's impacting, you know, perhaps private homeowners. The building across the street from where I live, Block 17, which is owned partially by Hoyt Street Properties,
 and Wood Partners, they had a real mass exodus of renters, and they're considered a luxury apartment building as a result of pile driving at Block 20. And their way to respond to that was they began renting out on Airbnb homes.
 their units that they couldn't rent, rather than perhaps bringing the rents to a reasonable amount or some other things. And so to me, this is kind of a red flag. If the large apartment buildings are going to start leasing out on Airbnb and other – through other vehicles –
 And removing these units from the housing market, I do think that they need to be contributing more.
 their fair share. They're also in direct competition now with the Marriott residence in down the street. And so that's taking some tax dollars away. So I'm really happy to see that you're doing this. And I just want to say keep up the good work. Thank you. Thank you. If I could just say my understanding is that it's illegal to rent apartments and condo buildings.
 We thought so too. And so did a lot of the residents of Block 17. That was among the original rules. I'd have to double check to see if that's still in place. I believe it is. I believe some of the residents, the renders there, are challenging this. So it'll be interesting to see, but
 Yeah. If I had ever wanted to get an Airbnb, I would be very angry if I got woken up by pile driving at 6 o'clock in the morning. So hopefully that will get out and I'll have to think again. You're next. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrank-Johnson. And it's unfortunate that...
 Given the crisis, the only number we've really heard here is two dollars and one thousand units impact. We haven't talked about, at least it's not in the documents that are easily available on the city council website, an estimated total revenue for this package and the appropriate expenditures. And also...
 if this is any type of carrot stick club thing that could motivate, uh, Airbnb and B and similar providers to get involved in offering, uh, emergency shelter to all kinds of people, particularly as we're going to be talking about later, people who are in distress because of domestic violence. Um, so, uh, in addition to some revenue here of a, as yet unsummarized, unaggregated amount, uh, that we don't know exactly what we're going to do with, uh,
 We also, in the light of the recent tragedy when we're all trying to think about being the best citizens we can, need to extend that to corporate citizenship of people who might be renting out the white stag building for their offices instead of as condos and make sure that they're fully engaged in quality of life improvements here in our city. But I don't know, perhaps your packages are more comprehensive. If you could speak to an estimated...
 I don't know if we have even good intel about how many units are on the market for those services. Well, just we do know – and it's a great question, Charles. We did get a report, I think, during the budget season of all the revenue that's reported from short-term rentals –
 because by council ordinance that revenue goes into the housing investment fund and is used to build and preserve affordable housing. So we did make a conscious decision to take the revenue stream for short-term rentals and use it to mitigate the impact on affordable housing.
 We have quantified the amount of the existing revenue. The challenge here is that there are so many units that are under the radar because the platforms have failed and refused to give us the names and addresses of their hosts. And we suspect one of the reasons they've done that is many of those hosts would not otherwise qualify, would not be legal under Portland law, meaning they don't have a valid smoke detector alarm.
 They can't pass a basic fire safety life test, and the owner has not obtained a business license. So it's hard for us to speculate, but we'll be as transparent about this data as we have been with the revenue that goes to the Housing Investment Fund. Just let me – Yes, please. This is just the resolution saying go bring something back. So when it comes back to council, that's when you'll have the financial impact statement. And –
 I've dissed the so-called sharing economy here before, and we're currently as a city litigating against a sharing economy company, Uber. I would hope you'll be in conversation with the city attorney's office if there's any legal avenues to leverage better disclosure out of if there's any technology shenanigans going on inside the algorithms so that we don't have to rely on Mary's excellent reports of what's going on. Great, thank you.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog X. Again, I think the city is being completely unreasonable, over-regulation, over-taxing. Again, these Airbnb home away is bringing more money into this city, but it's not going into their pockets. It's going into the businesses in the local communities.
 Because they're bringing people in who want to spend money throughout the local economy. Now, you want to come back and start squeezing them. They're already paying a lodging tax. They're already putting money into the housing investment fund. You want to hit this $2 per book night. Then you want to come back and do this tourism improvement district, try to hit on top of their gross rental receipts. Again, the city's been the bully.
 just like the city's being the bully with Uber. And again, I hope they challenge you in court on this and run you up a couple billion dollars, and I hope you lose it. You're being completely unreasonable to the people, the businesses such as Airbnb, HomeAway, Uber, Lyft, have increased the tourism dollar in this city.
 in the last three to five years more than anyone else has ever done. You ought to be giving them an award, thanking them for coming into this city. Because if you look at the dollars they brought into this city, and then you analyze how well these businesses have done, and look at the business tax that has increased at a rapid pace, and you've benefited from that.
 but you're not giving them any accolades. No, you want to come back as the big bully regulator. Well, guess what? You're not the big bullies anymore because you know what?
 These billion dollar corporations overshadow you. I hope they come in and buy your transportation infrastructure out from under you. I hope they come in and basically put their money where they want to put their money and you quit trying to regulate them out of this city. Again, they should be getting accolades.
 You shouldn't be stopping the true innovators of this city. You're nothing but regulators standing there thinking you can just squeeze every penny out of them. Guess what? The true entrepreneurs are these companies that are making more jobs, creating more opportunity in this city. And guess what? You're going to lose in court. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 I love regulators. Thank you. We'll move to resolution. Yeah. If you have to pay it. Any further public testimony on this particular item? I don't know. Sorry? I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Very good. This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to secondary. Resolution. I'm sorry. It is a resolution. Please call the roll. Fish. Well, I want to thank Thomas Lanham for bringing this forward, and I think it's an innovative idea to –
 leverage the benefits of the short-term rental market and to generate some additional monies to deal with the impact on our housing crisis. There was some testimony earlier about, to the extent that the effect that we're over-regulating. I want to be very clear. What we're talking about here are out-of-state companies, largely based in Silicon Valley, that are among the most well-capitalized companies in the world.
 that have gone into city after city and bullied regulators and consumers. And I'm agnostic about the sharing economy. I mean, as a matter of principle, I will not get into an Uber car because I don't want to support their corporate culture. But these are out-of-state companies with a business model that says we come in and run over consumers and regulators. And they have been highly effective.
 And what Portland needs to do is make sure that the public is safe and that everyone plays by the rules. And the reason 26-194 passed overwhelmingly is that Portlanders found it offensive that a mom-and-pop bed-and-breakfast in St. John's pays the lodging tax, and these out-of-state companies don't. That's offensive. That means that our people are put at a competitive disadvantage. So we're leveling the playing field. And the reason that we are seeking to get the names and addresses of the units –
 is because today if you ask me where's a Hilton, where's a Motel 6, I can tell you and we can go look at the units. Why do we want to look at the units? Because we want to make sure there's a working smoke detector, and God forbid there's a fire, there's a way for someone to get out of the room.
 Currently, companies like HomeAway have refused to even identify their hosts, which means people are coming to this city, and we welcome them. We're grateful they're coming. They're spending money. We're even more grateful they're doing that. But as a city, we can't tell them they're safe in their unit.
 And it is only through the grace of God that we have not had a fire or some tragedy where someone has come to our city, and because one of these companies has been negligent in ensuring the units are safe, someone has died. So our obligation is to make sure everybody pays the same tax, the out-of-state companies and the mom-and-pop bed-and-breakfast, and to make sure the units are safe.
 That's what these resolutions and ordinance are designed to do. We still have a long way to go, but I have to say, under this mayor, I've seen more action to actually address these consumer and safety issues than I have in the last four years. And for that, I'm grateful, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner.
 I want to thank Commissioner Fish for his passion on this issue and for his commentary. There's no question that short-term rentals are contributing to a global housing crisis, as well as our own local housing crisis.
 is serving as an accelerant to growing wealth inequality. Portland was the first city in the U.S. to legalize short-term rentals, which means we were also the first to set rules and regulations. And I'm proud to say that we are not backing off of them so far. We are actually asserting them further. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 So I'm not going to get sucked into the conversation about the regulation versus the free market, except to say this. I believe in tax fairness and tax equity, and I want to thank Commissioner Fish for his leadership to make sure that we have that in the community. I think it's a basic principle of taxation. And second of all, while I do support private sector innovation –
 I also support paying for the services that help them to be economically successful in our community. And for those of you who are regulars here who just sat through weeks and weeks of tough budget decisions around basic services here,
 And the cost of providing those basic services, whether it's safety, whether it's roads, whether it's fire and safety inspections, whether it's making sure that we have regulations in place that allow people with disabilities and older adults to participate in the sharing economy, there's a balance here.
 And it's not about government trying to get their piece or their pound of flesh off of the private sector. This is about making sure that we continue to have a viable community. And so I believe there's plenty of room for the sharing economy in this community to be highly successful,
 and economically highly successful and have our basic needs as a community also addressed. So I think it's a balancing act. And there'll be people who say we went too far. There'll be people who say we didn't go far enough. That's why we have a government and elected officials to help resolve some of those conflicts. So I think this is a pretty good example
 threading of the needle, and it certainly keeps the door open for further discussions and refinements. But I think it's great, frankly. I think it's a really good first step. Thank you. I support it. Aye. Resolution is adopted. Next item, please. 595, amend fee schedules for land use services and code enforcement. And I don't know who we have. We have Deborah Stephen-Larsen. Oh, here we are. Right here. Thank you. We are here. Come on up. Thanks, Deborah.
 So good morning. Good morning. I'm Deborah Sievert-Morris. I'm the Bureau of Development Services Senior Business Operations Manager. And I'm joined by Elshad Hadjiev, who is our finance manager.
 So we are here to talk about this year's fee schedule and some fee schedule changes. As you know, we provide a wide range of services at BDS, including permit issuance, plan and land use reviews, inspection services.
 customer service, and also outreach. And we have a goal of having most of our programs be self-supporting, and 97% of our Bureau's operating funds actually come from permit and related fees. And we do come to Council every year to talk about adjustments to our fee schedule. This year, due to the ongoing strong economy, we are not proposing any fee increases. However, we do want to make...
 some changes, some language clarification changes to our land use services fee schedule and also our code enforcement fee schedule.
 So related to land use services, we are wanting to be proactive in making a language change and changing what is now referred to as our environmental review fee to environmental and river review fee. And that's in anticipation of changes that will be coming forward related to the Central City 2035 plan.
 We also want to have our fee schedule reflect the changes that were adopted by Council in March relating to zoning code, the recap eight changes having to do with demolition delay and changing that from demolition delay to actually 120-day delay.
 The area in code enforcement that we're wanting to change also is language. We want to incorporate the current short-term rental citation fees that exist in administrative rules and actually incorporate those into our actual fee schedule itself. So there's one place for people to go to see that information.
 We have, as always, any kind of change, whether it's a language change or a fee change, we do outreach with all of our customers. We know it's very important for our customers to know of any changes that occur in the area of fees.
 And so we have been working with the Development Review Advisory Committee. We have published this information in our electronic newsletter, the Plans Examiner. We have reached out to members of the community, posted this on our website. And essentially those are the changes for this coming year. We do have an effective date of July 7th.
 and we're available to answer any questions that you might have. Very good. Commissioners? I want to thank you, and again, somewhat germane to the conversation we were having a few minutes ago, thank you for keeping the fees in alignment, and I think these are very important.
 reasonable policy changes that you've proposed. And we frequently get asked, you know, where can I actually see the fee information in the fee schedule and where it's all being published. And I just want to reiterate something that you said, that this is already available on the Bureau website. And for those who are super nerds on this issue, the Plans Examiner newsletter also is sort of the centralized and authoritative source on these kinds of fee issues.
 Thank you for that as well. Commissioner Fritz. So as one of those nerds, I do actually want to also highlight the fact for the accessory short-term rental, the first offense is $1,000 fine, second offense $3,000, and third offense $5,000. So this is serious action, and we do expect all of the homes to be permitted before they go into operation. Thank you for that. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this issue? No one signed up.
 This time, I am sure, this is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you both for being here. We appreciate it. Next item, please. 596, amend an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to restructure the domestic violence victim advocates for the domestic violence reduction unit. Very good. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners.
 My name is Ron Mason. I'm a sergeant with the Portland Police Domestic Violence Reduction Unit and the Domestic Violence Enhanced Response Team. And with me today I have Rose Bach from the Domestic Violence Sexual Coordination Office from Multnomah County and Vanessa Palacios, who is a divert advocate, to give you some information as well. Thank you all for being here. We appreciate it.
 This ordinance amendment is to 30004753 for amending the IGA with Multnomah County. We have had domestic violence advocates for more than 25 years with the police bureau housed in the same facility. The last few years, we have had a difficulty in maintaining permanent staff with the advocates that work in the office. Okay.
 There's a lot of training that goes into each of these folks. We ask them coming into it that they would be highly proficient in what they do with at least two years of experience. They have bachelor's degrees. They are some of the best of the best that are coming to work in these high stress and high volatility situations.
 The, what we have learned from talking with advocates that have left and went on to other places is that a significant amount of the reason that they're leaving is because of the pay. They're making between $14 and $16 an hour being highly skilled professionals. And that's, we've tried to address that with the nonprofit agencies that we've worked with.
 understandably have a schedule of pay for all of their advocates that work for their agencies and have been unable to raise the level of pay to something that would be significant enough to be able to stop the massive turnover that we receive.
 Usually about every 10 months we're experiencing turnover in these advocate positions, which leads to a difficulty in being able to do this work. Could you clarify the exact role that the advocates play?
 Yes. We're talking about two different positions. There's three positions that are in this IGA. Two of the positions are domestic violence response advocates. They work in the afternoon shift to respond to scenes of domestic violence that an officer has requested and the victim wants to have an advocate come out to them. They are able to...
 help the victim negotiate community resources, the law enforcement and criminal justice system navigation, and be able to not make decisions for the victims, but to be able to educate them on their options and their choices.
 The other position is a domestic violence response unit advocate that works day shift with the DVRU officers and coordinates cases with them, doing similar work, but it's not in the moment crisis that the afternoon response advocates work.
 Thank you. And for that, we're paying $14 to $16 an hour? Yes. Okay. I just wanted to underscore that point. Yes. So we're asking –
 The training period is about six months long. People come to us already having experience in the domestic violence community, being advocates, and they also have a bachelor's degree in social work, and often we have people with master's degrees in this work that are coming to work with us on this. So the training program is about six months to be able to get fully up and running to be on their own, and then...
 Typically about four months later, we're having to hire somebody else after about a three- to six-month gap that there isn't anybody in those positions. Thank you for those clarifications. I appreciate it.
 I brought Vanessa with me. She has a personal story that can express the benefit of this. Thank you for having us here. Good morning. Thank you for being here. I am here today to talk about my experience as both a survivor and an advocate for domestic violence cases. More importantly, to fully support the amendment to this ordinance in its entirety.
 About 10 years ago, I had the misfortune to be involved in a domestic violence situation. I found myself and my three children on the street with no money, only with a diaper bag.
 I was told that I needed to, of course, find shelter, to file a restraining order, to find an attorney, to apply for services, to call immigration. All of which were really good things that I needed to get done. However, I did not know how to do it, where to go, who to call. And I had no idea what to do. So...
 The advocate's position is so fundamental to assist people in these situations. With my experience as an advocate and looking back, I can tell you that...
 This could be situations of life and death, and an advocate can completely make the difference in those situations. Survivors need an advocate or a person that they can trust and talk to in order to help them identify their needs. Oftentimes we have to navigate several systems, criminal justice system, immigration system, the welfare system. So that's just the tip of the iceberg.
 Because oftentimes DV cases are extremely complicated and convoluted, long-term and steady advocacy is fundamental. This is why I support the amendment in its entirety, and I am hoping and praying you will do so. As I said, advocates could be the difference between a life and death situation. Thank you. We appreciate that.
 This amendment does not have any fiscal impact. There is money that has been reallocated within the police bureau's budget, so there's nothing additional we're asking from the city.
 Uh, this will give us approximately 50% more hours of advocacy a year. Uh, there's a study was done in the last couple of years of how much the vacancies have impacted us. And we will be able to have more than 5,000 additional advocate hours by having long-term, um, permanent, uh, employees in this position. Um...
 It will also allow us to get out of the routine of being always in a training cycle and have people that have been up to speed, that know the job, that know the resources, the community, the relationships with police officers, and being able to more effectively help the folks that they serve in the community.
 And then it will also increase our flexibility. We're looking at being able to expand the hours of operation. So being able to, instead of having the advocates go off shift at midnight, being able to expand to 1 or 2 a.m. Plus when there are other advocates that are either on vacation or sick, we don't have to have no advocates on duty. We'll be able to have additional staffing that provides seven-day-a-week coverage. The last...
 At least two years, we have significantly had many times that because somebody is sick or on vacation or at training and there's no advocates available, or because of the vacancies, there are no advocates available to the police officers who have gotten used to being able to work with them, and they turn to that resource and it's just not there. This amendment would fix that. Thank you.
 Great. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have 10 people signed up. Very good. Thank you. The first three, please, coming up are Mimi German, Tiffany Kraft, and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Good morning. I have a lot to say about... Is this a bill? Mimi, I'm sorry, is the green light on? No, it's not. Okay, thank you. It's an ordinance. It's an ordinance? I have a lot to say about the ordinance. My name is Mimi German. Um...
 I have to start off by reading a poem, and this is not in honor of Micah, but because Micah is a poet and we still have his voice, I want to honor poetry to express my heart. This is called Rowing the River. It's about hate. Hate.
 I want to bend the metal rod, but the rod is too thick to bend, to press the rod together, end to end, back and forth, and back and forth, creating a kink in the metal at its weakest point, back, trying to bend this unmalleable rod until it breaks.
 And the flame, so hot, made a rod too solid, forth. I try to bend the bars of hate to crack the point of breakage. And shards of metal pierce my skin, bleeding me back to rafting this longest river
 A metal rod as ore, the depth and current, the magnitude, no boat launch and no mooring, white waters, impossible to navigate, and so easy to drown. I don't normally shake up here. It's a hard day. So this is about domestic violence. I want you to add or consider adding to this domestic terrorism.
 We need people who are a part of somewhere in this city who can go out to the families of Donna and Venus when the police kill their kids and there's no one to talk to them. They need to find out on Facebook what happened to their kids. I want somebody to go out to the family of Terrell Johnson, who we still know so little about,
 When our cops feel the need to kill somebody for maybe seeing a box cutter. We need somebody for domestic terrorism to come to us, to the people, to explain to us how a whole community of cops allowed a murderer who just killed two people slashing their necks and micas to drink a beer together.
 go into a bag that was on the sidewalk. None of those cops had their guns pulled out. Micah got away, not Micah, the murderer got away with yelling at these cops, standing there for over two minutes. And he gets arrested, no bullets fired, no guns drawn.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Tiffany Craft, and I'm a former adjunct professor and currently work as a faculty organizer with Faculty Forward Network. And I'm also a domestic violence survivor. Very briefly, December 19, 2013, my almost ex-husband, high on drug and drink, entered our home and tried to snatch our joint five-month-old child out of his crib.
 My daughter, who was an adult, 18 at that time, blocked him. He beat her up, threw her against the wall, grabbed my car keys, went out, started my car, backed up, hit a utility truck parked behind us. And then I was on the phone with his father at that time, who was on his way to the scene, but he pulled the car and nearly hit me.
 I then called 911. Police came. Long story short, there was probable cause. He fled the scene. The police said they were going to collect him, get him, even with three adult witnesses. My mother was there as well. They never picked him up.
 I don't have a lot of faith in the police. Even with the restraining order, he would still do things like come in my backyard, call the cops, nothing. I was the nuisance in this case. And the things that now frighten me, and one of the things that actually helped me with the subsequent PTSD was not just psychotherapy. It was community activism. In particular, now when I'm on the streets...
 if one of those big trucks swerves and revs, and it particularly usually does that around people of color, PTSD is triggered, right?
 These angry white males are in our city, and I know you know that. And so I was a bit upset with the meeting with Joey Gibson, Patriot Prayer. He is one of those angry, bigoted males that scare me, and that empowered him. You took that power you had that was protecting your citizens in the front line, which are single mothers like me, that will be there Sunday, and gave it to him. And I...
 I can't tell you how much that hurts. I've been in the faces of these guys. They are oppressors. They are using misappropriated Christian ethics that purposely, intentionally hurt women and minorities. That's what they are designing to do. And that's going to happen on Sunday. I'll be there. I hope you don't show up.
 and shake anyone's hands. I appreciate you, Mayor. I want to see you do what's right for the city. And these guys aren't neutral, nor are the cops. And I know a lot about cops, too, because my father's a retired officer. So I will be there, and I want to be safe. And my children won't be there, of course, but they're going to be worried about me. And I would just really like to say that there's a power over that they're exerting, and I don't appreciate it.
 Thank you. And if I could just take one moment to comment, and I appreciate your statement.
 But I do feel like I need to comment because I've been getting lots of questions about why did I meet with the organizer of the protest that's planned. We have actually reached out to the organizers of that protest and the organizers of the counter-protest. And the conversation was basically, I had two purposes. Number one, to ask them if they would voluntarily withdraw. Right. Right.
 And number two, if they would not do that, we wanted to make sure that we established some parameters for public safety and ask –
 As you can imagine, it's a very volatile situation. So I didn't just meet with one side. I've met with... And there's not just two sides. There's actually multiple sides in this issue that's coming up on Saturday. And the point wasn't to empower them or help them or anything else. It was to appeal...
 for calm and for common sense. You can disagree with whether it was the right strategy or not. I'm not claiming any monopoly on the truth. But as you know, my first request was to pull the permit. Right. And I stood alone.
 in that request, except for Commissioner Udeli. I believe she was the only other elected official in the State of War. I was with you on that. I was happy. Thank you, and I appreciate it, but we lost that one. So now the question is, how do we de-escalate the conversation? Don't negotiate with terrorists like Joe Gibson. I'm not negotiating. I'm not negotiating. What I'm doing is I'm trying to get everybody just... Okay. This is a... We're still mourning here as a community, and the anger is rising. Okay. And...
 Now my objective as mayor is to do everything I can to maintain the peace. And if that means I have to talk to people to appeal to them to help me do it, that was a decision I made. And you can say it was the right decision or the wrong decision, but I want you to know why I made that decision. Can I please say two more things? Please, you may. I would beg you not to cower to his demand to offer a statement that –
 Jeremy Christian is not part of his gang. He was. I have offered no such statement, nor will I. Okay, thank you. That's what he's saying on his little videos that he posts. Well, you know, as you know, Facebook, YouTube, Twitter. Yeah.
 You can say anything. It doesn't make it true. Okay. Thank you for your statement. One last thing, Mayor. Can I please offer you this book following in Dr. Kendall's footsteps? It's called White Rage by Professor Carol Anderson. She's a professor at Emory University. Yeah, sure. As long as when I'm done, I can return it because I'm not allowed to accept gifts. We could have a library exchange going every Wednesday as far as I'm concerned. Then I get it back. Yeah. Maybe if you could just give it to Carla on your way out. Oh, absolutely. I'd be delighted and I'm very appreciative. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And although our community has suffered tragic high-profile deaths right now, I think that that should influence our conversation that even though you sometimes can get caught up in nuts and bolts of municipal legislation, not just Amanda and Chloe, but everybody up there, when a domestic violence item is on the agenda...
 Your briefing should tell us how many dead people we're talking about, how many permanently injured, because that is really... That's happening. You know, at the end of this year, there'll be crime statistics, and it will tell us that Ricky and Taliesin are dead from a crime of violence. But they're sure as heck not going to be alone. I highly doubt the statistics are going to say that nobody died from domestic violence. And, of course...
 overwhelmingly those victims are women, victims of violent men, violent white men. And so when we have even a nuts and bolts-y thing like this about domestic violence, it's important for us to remember not just to do the work to prevent future victims, but to have an informed conversation about how badly did we fail during the previous physical year or the previous calendar year, what women did.
 lost their lives and any other victims of domestic violence lost their lives because we have imperfect structures, restraining orders, domestic violence protection orders. We need to constantly be thinking about tweaking those, you know, vision zero is a buzz phrase that got attached to traffic deaths, but it applies to all deaths by violence. You know, 20, I haven't heard a woman who's died from abuse this year. I,
 the way men are. I suspect there's already been one, but we really need to look to having a Vision Zero year as soon as possible for that. Thank you all. Thank you. The next three are Cameron Stark, Chris Ramsey, and Jesse Sponberg. Good morning. Carla, could you call the next one on the list? How about Michelle Darr? I believe his last name. My name is Cameron Stark. I believe that Black Lives Matter
 I kind of want to mirror what Mimi said when she said that we need to
 put something in this ordinance to expand probably the definition of domestic violence because there are a lot of instances of police violence. I mean domestic means here at home and we are facing a whole lot of violence from the police. I'm sure that Quanis Hayes and Terrell Johnson are not considered under the current scope of domestic violence but
 If you look at it in a broader spectrum, yes, they are. They were hurt by those who were scheduled to protect them. And you just also, you can't look at domestic violence without looking at what's going on with the Portland police. I mean, Chief Mike Marshman is, you know, your police chief, and we all know what happened with his stepson. I'm not trying to get too off topic about that, but when you have a...
 police force that's ran by, you know, domestic violence perpetrators, then it's really hard to trust the police when it comes to that. And I know you understand that. Yeah.
 Um, I've also known many women who are victims of domestic violence here in Portland, and when they call the police, they in sometimes turn get arrested themselves when they didn't start the altercation, and they definitely weren't the ones that were most left damaged. Um, I've seen that as a pattern and an issue. I think that needs to be addressed. Um, yeah.
 I mean, there's a brand new women's prison being built, and it's just going to fill more bodies in there. It's a system that's broken. You know, I don't have a whole lot more to say on it, but you need to expand the scope of what you look at as domestic violence, I think. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Chris Ramsey. I just want to acknowledge that $14 to $16 an hour for a domestic violence advocate shows how little we care about violence, even inside of the police budget. If you require a bachelor's degree, any simple math would say you would never be able to fulfill your loans. So just showing that that's actually important.
 When I think of domestic violence, it makes me think of a situation between two people traditionally, you know, people in a relationship. But individual people in a community can be victims of domestic violence at the hands of the community that they live in. And marginalizing people through ignorant policy or outright neglect puts them at increased risk for domestic violence in their community and in their home.
 Community violence is domestic violence. Police violence is domestic violence. Tribal violence, domestic violence. ICE violence is domestic violence. I have been the victim of domestic violence and have utilized the police, the judiciary, and community resources to escape. When you come up with a plan on how to try to escape your violator, if you can't trust the police, there is no one to call.
 If you can't trust that the police would come and help your friend if you were on their couch and he chased you, there is no one to call. And how, I don't know, on a side note, when I left the courthouse yesterday, I was followed in a huge truck and yelled at. Those types of incidences in our community where we're attacking people who are standing up to white nationalism in our community makes those people that facilitate that type of mentality fired up at home and desperate.
 everyone around is at an increased risk for direct violence. Thank you. Thank you. I want to mirror what these citizens both said, and that is we can't look at domestic violence without looking at the institutionalized nature of it and how it runs right through all of our institutions. I'm sorry, could you state your name for the record? I apologize. My name is Michelle Darr. Thank you, Michelle.
 So, again, I want to address the institutionalized nature of domestic violence and bring attention to the fact that it runs so rife through all of our public institutions that it shows up everywhere, of course, in our families. And our institutions are responsible. We need to hold our institutions responsible. We need to hold you responsible for the unreal violence that has been unleashed by the Portland police upon communities of color in particular.
 and how that violence has spread to more violence. And so this makes you responsible. That blood is on your hands, because this system that's been perpetrated here and all over makes everybody accountable, makes everybody responsible for what happened. Without addressing that, there's nothing to address. Thank you. The next three are Margaret Zebrowski, Mary Spagnola, and Allison Sosa. Thank you.
 Thank you. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Wheeler. Mayor Wheeler. I'm Peggy Zabrowski, Margaret Zabrowski, legally. In my career in public health with Multnomah County, I saw many victims of domestic abuse.
 I'm very supportive of efforts to increase their services, but I'm going to unabashedly admit that I'm using this because it's the most closely related to police issues. And we're experiencing an emergency in our state. Thank you for acknowledging that and standing up to the police union in your call for a police chief.
 The danger to people standing up for racial justice right now is increasing exponentially. Oh, I think I messed it up. No. There you go. Thank you. So we have a problem with the Portland police. They shoot people running away from them in the back. You've experienced two deaths in the short time that you've been in your roles, ma'am. Two deaths of young black males. Yes.
 And the police themselves have been linked to white supremacist causes. The white supremacists have a long history in Oregon, as we all know. It's on you folks, please, to do what you can against this very powerful union to initiate an investigation into what's going on inside the Portland police and root it out. Thank you.
 You also need to throw your weight in, if you have it, with the FBI telling them they must investigate the white supremacist networks in our city, in our state. We are calling, as of today, we will be calling on the wonderful investigative news sources in our country, some of which live here in Portland. The Observer's work has been sterling.
 We've all learned a lot from that. I'm right. It's very important to observe with the justice series. Do I have it right? Yeah. Okay. Sorry. But we'll be calling on criminal and, you know, Slate and Atlantic and people who have done the work to do that research themselves so we can hold the feet of the people of Oregon to the fire. Okay. And...
 I'm looking to you guys to take responsibility. Things are going to get worse. People are in pain. You got yelled at today for a reason. People are at risk. Thank you. There are a lot of threats, and there's a lot of people feeling permitted to do open violence. We know how the right works. It's always the lone crazy who does the crime. They intentionally make that happen.
 And, you know, that is a psychological thing, you know, trick, manipulation, that they're very good at. And you can't let it happen anymore. I agree. I think about it all the time. Good morning. Thank you. Mary Spagnola. I'm pretty nervous. I've never addressed City Council before. I'm just going to read. I'm afraid of the police. I'm afraid because they have all the weapons and gear and protection necessary.
 And I'm afraid because when someone is killed by a police officer in this city, the city basically says, good job. If the police are supposed to protect us and they see us as enemies, who protects us from the police? If an officer just doing his job means someone has to die, we have big problems.
 If an officer is so afraid for their own life, even with all their protection, they feel they must kill someone, maybe they aren't doing a good job. The narrative needs to change. I expect more from the City of Portland, from the Mayor, and from the PD. Why is our response not, how could this have been avoided? All the investigations and reviews that result in he was just doing his job,
 Response? Are heartless and disgusting. It's clearly about you all covering your butts instead of honoring a life lost, instead of accountability for causing pain. My concerns are now acutely focused on the racist violence in our community. The recent loss of lives should serve as clear evidence that this is an urgent matter. What are we doing right now to stop racist violence? There are community members and organizations who have been doing this work. Why are you not working with them?
 Why are you not seeking counsel with people of color leaders like Teresa Rayford? If members of our community want to go out and protest this upcoming white supremacist rally on Sunday, they will be at risk for violence from not only Nazis, but also Portland police. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. It's lovely to see your faces again after a very long time. My name is Allison Sosa.
 I'm not going to bash the police, although FTP always. And as a person of color, I don't have the luxury of calling the police. I was raped in October on the hood of a car by a stranger, and I didn't call the police. I went back to work working for the DPO. I acted like it was a normal day. That didn't shock me, and it shouldn't shock anybody here in this room. One in three women and one in four men encountered domestic violence. Okay.
 It doesn't matter how we look at it, how we paint it. It's an issue that continually gets ignored. And we're like, oh, it's great. We're going to wear a little ribbon and it's going to be awesome. And oh, awareness. You know what I mean? But yes, there is a systemic problem with the police being racist. And for me, coming into this situation and knowing and seeing all of you do your job, um,
 My job is to educate my children, to weaponize myself with my education, and that's what I've done. I am not somebody who wants notoriety. I'm not somebody that feels like I necessarily need help because I have my community. Okay.
 What I cannot stand by is seeing people not make a livable wage. I have, I've been texting a friend actually just now because she lives in South Carolina and she is my only source of support in this matter because she is as much of a fighter as I am.
 When we're talking about 40% of police families encounter domestic violence and 20% of combat veterans, of which I am a veteran, you know, I am a domestic violence survivor. I don't ever feel safe. I don't feel safe in this room. I'm one of less than eight people of color. So when you talk about don't interrupt, you're silencing me. And I don't appreciate it.
 I worked hard to get to where I am. I was a street kid. I came back after traveling the world, and yet Portland has not changed. It's the fourth night of Ramadan. I spent five years overseas, and I spent this weekend breaking Iftar over at the Met because that's the only place I felt at peace. It's the only place I felt safe. And I purposely didn't come the night of the vigil to Iftar because you were going to be there, Ted.
 I don't feel like your opinion is credible to me. I don't think it applies to me. And it's not fair. I get to sit in a room while my friends are outside because they speak up. So I'll bite my tongue and sit in this chair and thank you for your time. Thank you. The last person who signed up is Edith Gillis.
 I'm Edith Gillis, and I'm holding up my right hand as a stop sign, but also as a visual reminder that the only way you can stop violence, domestic violence, police violence, fascist violence,
 is to address the entire hand of violence. And we talk about the tallest finger being the bad guy, and that's the only one. Or just the little thumb, the victim sucking his thumb, feeling sorry for themselves, they asked for it. But it's also the pointer finger that points out who's allowed to be abused.
 Houseless, poor, mentally ill, people of color, First Nations, gender minorities, religious minorities, political activists. They're pointed out as the ones that's okay to impoverish, to terrorize, to traumatize, to abuse. Yes.
 And then there's the ring finger, those who feel wedded to this violence, who make excuses. Oh, I can't do anything about it, I'm just doing my job. And the little white, little pinky says, oh, it's just I, I'm just a little witness. I can't do anything about it. Well, we've got to stop. In the Judaic, the Christian, and the Muslim tradition, we are demanded to be right witnesses.
 To be upstanding and support those. Leviticus 19.33 says, Love your neighbors as yourself. Care for those who are strangers and oppressed. Remember you were like them too. And open your heart and your home to them. We need to do that. Now, how can you at the City Council do something to stop domestic police and other violence? Is to say no to hiring police who are coming from the military.
 who are bringing the same fake weapons at the scene like they do with the so-called improvised explosive devices. They'll put on the scene and pretend that the person they just murdered was a terrorist or an insurgent. We've had two guns on the same day, fake, put out there as false evidence, where there was no excuse if they had been real guns to kill those people.
 I have known that most of the police force, and I'm hearing this from police themselves because there are a few good ones, saying that most of them are fascists who are using fear and force to get their way to terrorize and control folks. And most of them are domestic violence abusers. When I've called the Portland police to protect us from abusers, they refuse to come. We had been...
 Terrorized by someone, broken into our home, destroyed property, raped me. And a police officer came to my home because I cannot get a restraining order. Because the restraining order in the state of Oregon, I've tried to have Portland advocate for me that the restraining order should not be limited to family members or sexual partners. This was a neighbor, a criminal defense attorney. We need to be able to expand it so that the police don't come in and say, no, don't ever come when she calls.
 and verbally abused me worse than all the abusers. My mother was killed because of racism and domestic violence. The same railroad tracks that were unsafe and killed, Modocs and Klamas, dozens of them were not noticed and not changed. But when a white woman, the daughter of a multimillionaire was killed, same purpose, same place, she was killed.
 Oh, suddenly her life matters. Well, every life matters. And you can make sure that in how you talk about folks, how you schedule your time, who you welcome here, what kind of policies you have, how you control who is hired, who is supervised, who is fired, and that you have records of police not be closed...
 So that the good cops are not allowed to go up, and the bad cops get away and again. We've had cops kill or brutalize almost everyone in my neighborhood. You've got to stop that. And you can. It's in your hands. Thank you. Appreciate it. One more? Someone else wanted to speak. Yeah, come on up.
 And, folks, I want to apologize. I'm going to have to leave fairly soon. Mayor, we actually have emergency ordinances coming up. Yes. No, I understand. So I think we've got to get through the agenda. Okay. Well, I can't stay because there is something else related to what we are all talking about that I need to attend to. So maybe we can. Tomorrow. We'll just have to do them tomorrow. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry for the interruption.
 I'm Batia Lan. I have never spoke here either, but I wanted to speak on domestic violence being expanded as well to domestic terrorists, because yesterday when we were at the arraignment, there was a man who came in.
 who said he was a friend of Jeremy Christian. He was wearing red laces, which we know speaks to white supremacy, specifically that he has shed or spilled blood for his cause. We know that for a fact. He admitted that he was Christian's friend. He was escorted kindly out of the building, and we were told we were safe because he went across the street. None of us felt safe. None of us felt safe.
 We went outside the building scared that they were around the corner. We know that's what they do. We know that they communicate and they want to hurt us. When we came to your office to ask for protection for our community, we were placated and told to go away. So I left yesterday having no faith in your ordinances or your care for this community because that was a real circumstance that our community needed protection for.
 And we were basically ignored. And that's all I want to say today. Thank you. Is that it? That's all. Great. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly.
 I want to thank city and county staff for coming up with a plan to make our domestic violence reduction unit more efficient, more effective, expand the hours, and better ensure that domestic violence survivors have a consistent advocate to guide them through the system. Aye. Fritz. I thank those testifiers who actually referenced what we're talking about today and the...
 $14 to $16 an hour. Mayor, I'm concerned that the Police Bureau was able to find $332,000 within their budget to reassign to this. We've just been through a very difficult budget exercise.
 It begs the question of why was this amount of money available, and I'm really glad that it's going to this cause. And I also want to reflect and report on what I heard at the Iftar on Saturday from Wajdi Saeed. And he was talking to his community and said that Muslim, Shiite, and Sunni people need to figure out how to get along. He says we're all Muslims.
 And what I'm feeling today in response to the challenges that we've heard over the past week and more, we are all devastated also. And we're all on the same side. We want to stop this hatred from gaining a grip in our society. So as hard as it is, we've got to figure out how to do that. And, Mayor, I thank you for your leadership of the police and in this tragedy. Thank you, Commissioner Daly, for your work as the President of the Council and speaking for us last week and over the weekend. Wheeler.
 I appreciate what people were saying today. And I know people are hurting and they're struggling and they're trying to find the center. And they're trying to find what, where, and who in this community that they can rely on and who they can trust. And I heard loudly and clearly for many of the people testifying, you do not think I am that individual and I can accept that.
 But I'm also going to say this. I started my day by being called a Nazi. I started my day by being accused of perpetrating murders that were committed in this community last week. I have been threatened by people on all sides of the political spectrum. And I want you to know this from me personally, because I don't think I've done a very good job
 of letting people into who I actually am and what I actually stand for. And I want you to know I stand with you in opposition to the hate and the violence and the bigotry and the terrorism that took place in this community on Friday. Now, we're not going to build a trusting relationship overnight. You don't know me. You don't know me. And what I would ask for is whether you hate me or not, we're stuck together.
 for the next three and a half years. So let's figure out how we can work together. Let's try. All right? Let's try. Let's see if we can work together and make some real progress in a community that is hurting. And that's my goal. I'm going to do my level best to protect everybody's safety on Saturday.
 I'm going to do my level best. And as I say, I'm sorry, Sunday, and I'm working with lots of people in this community to help make that happen. I think we can show the world that we can have disputes, that people can have their First Amendment rights respected. And at the end of the day, my goal is to make sure everybody goes home to their families. That's what I want. That's what's in my heart right now.
 That's where I am. And so I have heard what you've said, and I appreciate those of you who've come up to express honestly and forthrightly your opinions, and I'm hearing what you're saying. I just want you to know that. I don't even remember if I voted, so I'll vote again. Aye. Aye.
 The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Mayor, before you adjourn, I need to make a request. Please. I'm sorry. You seem like you're on a roll. I'm going to be gone next week, so I'm requesting that item 608 be held over for one additional week. Item 608 be held over for one additional, so not next week, but the week after that. Is that correct? Yes. Is there any objection? Well, let me propose a counterproposal on this. Commissioner Fish? Yes.
 My understanding is we had the votes... Stand with us on Sunday. Wear black. Stand with us on Sunday.
 My understanding, colleagues, is that we had the votes today to put an emergency clause on 608 and simply pass those portions that we agreed to last week and then have the other matters come back at the end of the month as we agreed. Actually, no, Commissioner, I'm not willing to do that. I'm not willing to support what's on the table. Okay. Your Chief of Staff represented that you were, so that's what we were acting upon. So I won't make the motion. Okay. Very good. So –
 Is there any objection to moving this to two weeks, 6-08, just to be clear? Is there a problem? Okay, let's do that. So item 6-07, as we discussed earlier, we can do that next week. And item 6-08 will hold over for two weeks, because I would like Commissioner Udaly to be here for that. I think it's important that she be here. And I realize that by my leaving now there are some emergency items that we're also going to have to move.
 presumably to tomorrow afternoon if that works for people. Or we'll sort it out. We'll figure it out. I'll have Kristen work with the staffs and we'll figure it out.
 Just so you know, Mayor, I've had a long planned vacation, and I won't be in the Thursday meeting tomorrow. I'm away for the next several days. Okay. Okay, that's fine. I'll see what the situation is with Dan. Well, sorry about that. Will anybody be here this afternoon at 2? Who? I'm sorry? 2 o'clock this afternoon. We could do that. Sure. Would that work? Why don't we just set over the rest of the agenda until 2 o'clock?
 And I'll clarify, Commissioner, what you were asking on number 08. And, folks, just so you understand, with emergency ordinances, there has to be a minimum of four of us present, and therefore we can't continue on this agenda. So we'll set over the rest of the agenda until 2 p.m. today. I'm sorry for those of you who are inconvenienced by that. Thank you. We're adjourned.
 Carla, before we begin, I want to make sure that I have the order exactly right here. So we've had a request to move 606 to the front of the line. And then I show that we have left 595, correct? Yes. 596 we did. 597 is still open. Yes. 599 through 604. Yes.
 Correct? Mm-hmm. And then 606, which we're bringing forward, and then that is it. Good. Right. Okay. And do not let me adjourn without somebody reminding me that the 2 p.m. Thursday, we're going to change that to 2.30. And I will do my level best.
 To remember to say that if I forget if somebody could remind me. That's now been changed to 3 p.m. tomorrow. That has been changed to, okay, but ask me on the record so that we make sure that we make that clear to everybody. Yeah, that's, you know what, I'll just say it right up front so I don't forget. All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council. This is Wednesday, May 31st. I have a quick announcement before we get to the roll call.
 For those who are interested in the item to be discussed tomorrow, Thursday, June 1st, which is related to the 100% goal around community-wide renewable energy needs, that has been moved from 2 p.m. time certain to 3 p.m. So that will be tomorrow at 3 p.m., not 2 p.m. as originally announced. So with that, Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Here. Fish.
 Udaly. Here. Zaltzman. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And we've had a request to move item 606 to the front of the list. We have a number of staff members who've waited very patiently all day. Please read the item.
 Item 606, authorized conveyance of city-owned property located at 1620 Northwest 14th Avenue to Innovative Housing, Inc., and funding in an amount not to exceed $11,434,111 to Innovative Housing, Inc., and its affiliate, Raleigh Housing Limited Partnership, for the construction of a new 93-unit affordable housing development.
 Thank you. You want to come on up, Director Krieger? I will lead off. Kurt Krieger, Housing Bureau Director, joined by...
 Sarah Stevenson, Executive Director of Innovative Housing, and Julie Garver, Project Manager. Just as a way of framing the issue for you, we were last here in November, just before Thanksgiving, and the issue had to do with an appeal to a design commission approval with conditions that were deemed unacceptable by IHA and ultimately unacceptable to the city council.
 Since then, innovative housing has been working diligently to perfect the working drawings and to...
 arranged for the final financing of the project. I would underscore that the design architect, Alex Salazar, supported by LRS Architects, has been working for the last several months on this project. I would be remiss if I didn't recognize that PBOT was helpful in this process because it involved a lot of utility coordination.
 and some exceptions to existing policy, and that the Bureau of Development Services and Rebecca Essow's crew has been extremely helpful. I'd also like to recognize that the site was acquired by the Housing Bureau for $1.2 million, a little bit less than its current value of $1.9 million in 2015, and this was a site acquired from Hoyt Street Properties under duress to help fulfill obligations for affordable housing in the River District.
 Javier Mena was the director of the Housing Bureau at the time that the site was acquired, and he was supported by Carl Dinkelspiel, our housing finance manager, and John Marshall, who is our project manager.
 The other thing that I think is important to mention is that Innovative Housing, Inc. has effectively increased the density of the property through a density transfer of PNCA's historic National Register property in the neighborhood. So we were able to achieve an additional 16 affordable units over and above what they originally proposed in the 2015 proposal that they proffered to the Housing Bureau.
 $11.4 million is a lot of money, but this also leverages additional resources. The total project cost is some $35.8 million, which includes financial support from Wells Fargo, Raymond James, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance, Innovative Housing itself, which has contributed a portion of its developer's fee to the project,
 and HUD through Hound Forward, because there are some project-based rental assistance vouchers attached to this particular project. And the real good news story here is that we're supporting homeless families in one of the most attractive neighborhoods of Portland, the Pearl, and people who are working in the district. And I'll let Sarah and Julie finish.
 So Julie is our Director of Housing Development, and she's going to show you some slides and talk about some of the building amenities first, and then we'll shift over to me, and I'll talk about the services we're going to provide our residents and a little bit more about why we think this is going to be such a great place for families to thrive and succeed. Or maybe I will go first. Hi, Renee.
 Okay, while we get the slides up, maybe I will go first. So based on our current portfolio and our experienced housing families in Portland, we're anticipating that these 93 units will house probably over 300 people each year and that at least half of those will be children.
 we expect our average household income to be right around 30% of area median. That's based on our current family portfolio, even though many of the units in this building will be set aside for households that earn up to 50% and 60%. It is more typical that we house lower-income households. And as Kurt said, 40 of the units, well, 45 of the units will be set aside for families that earn no more than 30%.
 40 of those households will be coming directly out of homelessness.
 So that helps bring down the average income of the households. But we do find that most families we house struggle significantly, not only with income, but also with some other challenges. So we find that in order to help them succeed and stay stable in their housing, we really need to bring wraparound services. So in addition to our partnership with Multnomah County, who will be referring the homeless families, and with JOIN and Human Solutions and many of the other organizations that provide case management services,
 which is much more comprehensive alcohol and drug counseling, different things that families might need. We provide resident services on site. We will have a full-time staff person dedicated to this building, not only to serve the homeless families, but all 93 of our households.
 Our basic resident service program includes orientations and basic needs assessments. Our first goal is housing stability, and part of that is making sure that everyone's basic needs are met. So we work, we do a lot of information and resource referrals. We have a lot of partnerships with other service organizations throughout Portland, California.
 We do a lot of direct service and advocacy. We find that many families need assistance accessing benefits that they are entitled to, but because of bureaucratic systems, they can use some help.
 One of our main goals and the biggest push that we work on is eviction prevention. So anytime that a household is at risk of eviction, whether for nonpayment of rent or any behavioral issue or lease violation, our resident service coordinators step in right away. We waive late fees if people will sit down and do a budgeting session and start doing some financial education with us.
 And we also help make connections to different service providers and resources if there are at least violations that we can help address. We also, are you ready? I'm ready to do it without the slides. Okay. Well, then I'll say just a couple things. We also do a lot of tenant education, a lot of community building. And we have some special programs that we envision we'll bring to bear on this building, especially around holistic family services and youth programming, academic support, homework help.
 teen mentoring program. We have a strong college prep program that we try to, one of our goals around our youth programming is high school graduation. We think that's a huge significant way to help break the cycle of poverty is to get kids through high school and into that next step. So we will bring all of those services to bear and then the rest of our services will be tailored to the building. So we will see what people need and what they want and then we will deliver that.
 Well, we may or may not have slides for you, but I'll try to do a word picture. We are really excited about this building and everything it's going to bring to families. When you enter the building on the ground floor, you have a generous lobby, offices, and a coffee shop, or a neighborhood retail space, which the neighborhood and design review really encouraged us to do. So it will be nice to have that small space interactive with the neighborhood.
 On the second floor is where our secure community space for the building is going to be housed. And it will have a large community room that has a dividing door so it can be divided into smaller meetings. It has a community kitchen there. It has an indoor-outdoor play area that will take care of kids in the inclement weather, but also has a nice door that raises out to an outdoor courtyard on the second floor that will have play equipment.
 And then the laundry room is right there, integral, in the program too, so that parents and kids can all be in the same space and folks can be supervised. Nice bike room. And then moving up to the 12th floor, we have a small roof deck, 750 square foot of roof deck to be on the 12th floor with nice views.
 And the roof itself will have solar panels and a green roof. So the building is really built to last, concrete and steel. So it's going to be there over generations and provide a lot of nice amenities for residents.
 Any questions? Questions, colleagues? I just have to note that it's really unfortunate that people who come and yell at us for not doing anything for people who live outside were not here to hear that presentation because it really – I appreciate the work that you're doing, Mary. I appreciate your leadership of the Housing Bureau. And this is what – I know we've got lots of staff who work on this stuff day in, day out. So thank you. Commissioner Fish? So, Director Krieger, the good news is that almost half the units are –
 targeted to the people that have the greatest need in our community. And we're accomplishing that by pairing the units with Section 8 vouchers. So I guess we should acknowledge Home Forward. This is part of the allocation that they made to ensure that we could get deeply affordable housing. It is indeed. And these are project-based rental assistance vouchers that were allocated at the outset. Forty of them, yes. Mm-hmm.
 So those are families who will be paying one-third of their income for rent and utilities under the payment standards established by Home Forward. And if their income declines, their rent will therefore decline proportionately, and the federal government will pay the difference. Yes.
 And maybe this is obvious, but we're talking about a lot of units for very low-income people, and many of them families coming off the streets, so coming out of homelessness, which is great. And you've talked about the wraparound services on site. So do these qualify as permanent supportive housing units, or are they functionally the equivalent? No.
 Well, I'm not sure that you're providing the complete suite of services, but you're matching people to their needs. So to the extent that they have mental health treatment service needs, they're getting that support. So we would consider these permanent supportive housing units. The other thing that it's important to underscore is that this is immediately across the street to the north of Ramona. Yes. Okay.
 And there is an early childhood education center at Ramona. So within 60 feet, people are going to have some early childhood education services. And while this is 100% affordable, there's market rate housing immediately adjacent in the neighborhood.
 To the east is Abigail, which includes market rate units that bridge opened last summer. So it's a mixed-income neighborhood, and we're pleased that this was able to proceed. Most of that new development happened once the city finished the work on the fields, right?
 and that actually became the catalyst both for the work that Hoyt Street did and then Bridge came along and a lot of the other stuff. I don't remember the last time we had a project that came back to us with almost half the units at zero to 30. We talk about wanting to get deeply affordable units, but I don't remember, Kurt, the last time we had something with these numbers. No, we're normally getting between 7% and 15% at that level. This is a much richer sort of mix, and it –
 It's been the dedicated sort of concentration of innovative housing to reach those numbers. It's one of the reasons why the financing has taken this long. We had someone this morning, to Commissioner Fritz's point, who was here who spoke during the public comment, and she said we should be distributing affordable housing in neighborhoods across the city. And we talked about what it is to be in a high-opportunity area. To have family-friendly housing, deeply affordable, in the Pearl, I mean, is about as good as you can get.
 And the fact that it's next to the Ramona where there's a school that may be appropriate for the kids, and walking distance to a park, I mean, I'm very excited about this. So congratulations. Thank you. It's a great opportunity. One thing I should mention, there are 32 three-bedroom units, 32 two-bedroom units, and 32.
 two-ish one-bedroom units. So it's skewed towards very large units also. So it really is a family property. We didn't mention that. But it's harder to build bigger. So I wanted to make sure you know they're big units. Commissioner Fritz? How do you choose who gets to be there?
 Ooh, tough question. Well, we don't choose, you know, fair housing would dictate how we accept applications. The 40 homeless families will be referred through the Multnomah County Homeless Family Continuum. So the county will refer those that get to access the project-based vouchers. Okay.
 I'd be really, not now obviously, like to know more details about how do they make sure that the demographics of the people in this new building represent the demographics of our community as a whole. The Fair Housing Act has something to say about that and would limit. But the good news is that Section 8 wait list, for example, is limited.
 is heavily weighted towards older, disabled, people of color, and people in poverty. So that's a more diverse list. But the Fair Housing Act...
 has something to say about, if you will, cherry picking what tenants come into these units. Right. We don't really get to choose, but we do get to do outreach, and we do get to publicize and let people know about housing opportunity. And so that does fall to us in the lease-up process. And I think what we've done in the past is say, having the Urban League help with that outreach. Exactly. We've got partners that we make sure get the pre-applications as soon as, you know, we start pre-leasing. We do work with a lot of partners.
 To get the word out. Some of you have heard about it. Immigrant Refugee Community Association. Absolutely. Great, thank you. The NOAP fee, Tyrone Poole's company, has been retained by the housing bureau so that in the future, vacancies in the entire permanent affordable housing,
 of some 14,000 units today, vacancies will be placed through that online service. People won't be paying an application fee, and that allows us a great deal of selection so that individuals can have their own project profile and can select from available vacant units within the community at any given point in time. Okay.
 So people with disabilities, people of various races and ethnicities, people with children will all essentially have a project profile. And the city is underwriting the cost of no app fee for that purpose. Can you just remind me of one other thing? And that is what percentage of the units are required to be ADA accessible under the housing laws? You have the state standard of – what is it? Yeah, we have –
 And we're required to have 5%, and we'll have 10% built as accessible, and all of them will be adaptable and visitable. Thank you. We'll have two elevators in the project. So I think I just showed that the state rule is 5%. This is going to be 10% plus all adaptable. And we do have a partnership with Community Vision also, and we just portfolio-wide, we work with them to let them know whenever we have ADA units available because they are hard to find. Thank you.
 So I'll just throw my accolades onto the table as well. I think this is an amazing partnership, and I want to acknowledge that a lot of this work started when Commissioner Saltzman was the housing commissioner. He's not here, but I think it's important for me to certainly acknowledge that as the housing commissioner come lately. This is a fabulous partnership, and I think –
 One of the reasons it is so successful is all these different organizations coming together. You have the project sponsor, Innovative Housing, Inc.,
 Home for it, as has been discussed, has provided the Section 8 vouchers. IHI is partnering with the Multnomah County Homelessness Services, so we've got the county throwing their wholehearted support and infrastructure and capacity behind this important effort. Of course, we've got Human Solutions and JOIN and others who are working with us to make sure that this is a successful program. My thinking is this.
 we could fill this entire program very, very, very quickly, particularly because, as Commissioner Fish noted, there is such a deep level of affordability that's built into this model. And as Commissioner Fritz mentioned, there's a tremendous bias in favor of family units. And I think it's great, and I hope it's really well received by the community. I think people are going to...
 see this as a truly positive, family-friendly addition to the neighborhood. And there are always challenges associated with that. But I think with this partnership and with the strength of the proposal, I think it has that very, very high chance of likelihood and success. So I want to thank you all for that as well. Are there any other questions before we get to public? Okay.
 testimony. We'll let you guys take a break for a bit. And do we have a couple people? Yes, two people, Mary Seip and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Very good. Hello again. Thank you. Um, as you all know, the, the whole reason that we have this project name, Oh, I'm sorry. Mary Seip, um, is because of the, uh,
 what I want to say, the vision of the city when the Pearl District was being developed. And this land that was deemed...
 worthless was practically given to a developer by the city to create the Portland Pearl District. But one of the things that they put in the requirements was that it was either 30% or 35%. I think it was 35% of the housing that was put in this development would be affordable housing.
 And the reason that the city purchased and was able to purchase this particular lot, known as Block 26, from Hoyt Street Properties was because, according to the agreement, they had not met that threshold of affordable housing. And so the city was able to purchase this lot at a discount and –
 Fortunately, Innovative Housing has stepped up to the plate and is going to provide us with another income-restricted or low-income affordable housing, whatever you want to call it. I do wonder, Hoyt Street has just three blocks left in this area. They have Block 23, Block 24, and Block 29.
 And they just announced plans for Block 29 they're going to build, because it's directly under the 405 bridge. And these lots are right up against the railroad tracks as well. They're going to turn on Lot 29. They're going to build a storage facility. They are also looking at senior housing at Block 23. Now, I know that's not going to be affordable senior housing, but,
 And as you know, I happen to live in one of the income restricted projects, and I've spoken before about the need for this type of housing for seniors. And I just want to reiterate that and also kind of throw a pitch out to Innovative Housing. I think it's wonderful that we are building this community in this area for low-income families.
 But we also do have a very neglected segment of the population that are seniors that are living on strictly Social Security, on fixed incomes, with no opportunity, literally no opportunity to increase their incomes. And so I would like to encourage the city to look and see, do they have the opportunity to purchase another piece of property from White Street before it's all gone?
 Great question, Mary. And if I could just reflect for a moment, I want to assure you
 that the commitment to an age-friendly city is more than just a hollow commitment. And there are, in fact, projects we're sketching out right now with a focus on intergenerational housing. And so I just want to second what you're saying. I absolutely agree with you that we cannot neglect an aging population, particularly an aging population with declining –
 real incomes in this environment. And so well said, and I agree with you. If you need a citizen representative to help with any of that, you know where to find me, and I would be more than happy to participate in any way that I can to help that along. We have an oversight body that we started called the PHAC, the Portland Housing Advisory Commission,
 And I think you'd be an outstanding member of that. And I hope you'll talk to Kurt about just knowing about future vacancies, because that's the body that advises the Bureau on an ongoing basis. And given your interest and expertise, I think you'd be terrific. Well, thank you. I really would appreciate that opportunity, and I'll talk to Kurt. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And, you know, it's great property. I think that the –
 It's easier to have more enthusiasm for this, maybe just because of its size and the family reach, than it was for the Erickson, which I think is the last one that really involved a substantial amount of city money, I think, before you were here. I do think that when we look at – I know there's another agenda item coming up with bond investment – that we're eventually going to need some kind of metric, a tool to tell us about bang for the buck.
 and maybe ways to incentivize developers to give us projects like these that are, you know, a hundred percent of the units are below 80% MFI. Um, find out what, uh, Catholic charities was able to do. I don't think they even had the help of the, uh, tax crediting investment from West Fargo and stuff like that so that, uh, we get more lots with, uh,
 These buildings are just loaded below 80% MFI. The other thing that was mentioned is the Home Forward of the Housing Bureau's use of no app fee. You know, ideally, you know, these types of specialized investment vehicles can only reach a small portion of the people that need to get housed. So I hope that in whatever's going on with no app fee, you can find a way to incentivize large-scale landlords, even...
 perhaps less popular with some of us people like APM and stuff like that. If there can be a financial incentive tool whether it's an adjustment, maybe a break on the relocation fee or something so that some of the very large portfolio property owners will be on no app fee instead of having that really prohibitive revenue. It's actually a screening tool. Application fees can be a screening tool to screen out
 what sub-property managers can say and less desirable so I hope we'll see some work in that area as well thank you can I make one little pitch with I have a few seconds left to innovative housing to please not use the impact hammer pile driver on the building thank you Kirk can you come back for a sec just Director Krieger can you come back for one sec um
 I neglected to ask just to clarify, the affordability covenant here lasts 60 or 90? This is at 60 years. We are migrating to 99 years, but this was procured in 2015 before that new standard was set, and I've been honoring those prior agreements.
 And just to be clear, of the total financing, we're providing about a third, which means we're helping to leverage tax credits and private equity and debt and other sources to make this deal work. Yeah, it's a three-to-one leverage. We're gaining $2 of outside money for every $1 of city money invested in the project.
 And, you know, you took up the short-term rental measure earlier today when I was initially asked to quantify the number of units lost and came up with the 1,000 units. I had said then that the replacement cost for those was about $385 a unit, and that's what this costs. So, you know, this is a step in the right direction, certainly. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions for the director? Any further comment? No.
 Please call the roll. Fish? Well, I'm very pleased and proud to support this. It meets so many of the city's goals. It serves the poorest of the poor within our community and with a focus on people who have experienced homelessness and want to get back on their feet.
 It's in a high-opportunity area, which means we're investing in a place that low-income, moderate-income, wealthy households would like to live, and so it advances our goal of giving people meaningful choice. It's a fantastic leverage. And the partnership both with the city, the county, Home Forward, and IHI is the way we do our best work. So I'm very pleased with that.
 You know, not that long ago we would have some people here testifying and objecting to the cost of this project per unit. And the council has pretty consistently, and particularly under Dan's leadership at the Housing Bureau, pointed out that there is a cost of building housing for the long term that's high quality and it serves the needs of people. And –
 I'll just close by saying when we invest in beautiful libraries, we rarely have people come out and say we're spending public money recklessly and building a beautiful library. When we build beautiful train stations and public amenities, people usually don't come out and say you're wasting money on that. When we invest in beautiful parks, people usually come and celebrate the fact and not criticize us.
 I'd like to think that we have the same pride in investing public resources in long-term affordable housing, which is part of the asset base of a healthy community. And I, for one, am pleased to make that investment. So thank you for your good work, Kurt, and the Bureau. And thank you, Innovative Housing, for delivering another terrific project. Hi. Eudaly? Eudaly?
 Thank you for the presentation and your hard work. I am, of course, very excited about this project and especially happy to hear that you have 100% visitability and 100% adaptability and the partnership with Community Visions because as short as we are in affordable housing, we're perhaps even shorter on accessible housing. Thank you.
 Chris. Well, thanks to everybody involved. I was particularly happy to hear about the community space, both indoor and outdoor. And that's one of the things that raises the cost of the whole development, because obviously those don't count under the per unit, but it's the thing that makes a community instead of just a project. So thank you for doing that. I. Wheeler. Great project. Thanks. I. The ordinance is passed. Thank you. Next item.
 597, authorized contract with CH2M Hill to provide planning and project development services for the Central City Multimodal Project not to exceed $590,696. Very good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for having me. I'm Gabe Graff with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I've got a brief presentation here.
 I'm here today to ask you to authorize this contract with CH2M to provide planning and project development support to this project, which seeks to make getting around to and around the central city safer, easier, and more convenient by foot, bike, transit, through planning, prioritizing, and constructing active transportation projects. I'll provide a quick background on the project and share our schedule and budget and answer any questions you might have. Okay.
 The Council nominated this project for Metro's Regional Flexible Fund Program in 2013, and a $6 million grant was approved and included in the 2016-2018 STIP, or Statewide Transportation Improvement Program.
 And in August of last year, Council authorized an IGA with the Oregon Department of Transportation programming the first $852,000 of this funding for the planning and development phase. In this phase of the project, we seek to develop, refine, and prioritize active transportation projects using the Central City 2035 plan as a foundation. Our project area matches that of the Central City 2035 plan boundary. Okay.
 Excuse me. And we will focus on making it easier and safer and more convenient to get to and around the central city by transit, bike, foot, or mobility device. Making the most efficient use of our right-of-way. Encouraging the most efficient modes of travel while preserving freight and personal vehicle access and mobility.
 When we applied for the funds, PBOT identified three key issues we sought to address. Safety, half of the high-crash intersections for people walking or biking are in the central city. The lack of a clear bike network. People biking into our central city and downtown often feel like they're left behind and not sure where they should be. And on the other side, people driving in our central city often feel like there are cyclists everywhere and they're not sure where to expect them.
 And then finally, a lack of clarity on the Bureau's strategy for active transportation improvements in the central city, particularly for the bike network, a concern that we weren't looking at the whole picture. Okay.
 And then since then, of course, growth has emerged as an additional priority. Central City is the densest concentration of people and jobs in the state. And this economic success brings transportation challenges. How can we safely and efficiently get people to and from the Central City to the new jobs, the cultural amenities, the dining, the retail? So this is a significant investment in our vision for how to do that and support that growth.
 What might it look like? We'll be looking at these next-generation multimodal infrastructure that provide clear separation for people walking, biking, and driving so everyone knows where they should be. And then, of course, we'll also be looking at how to facilitate more trips in and out of the central city. Transit priority projects, such as this drawing which illustrates a bus queue jump, may prove key to this effort.
 And then due to the complexity and the increasing demands of the transportation infrastructure in the central city, we issued this RFP for consultant services to assist us in this phase. CH2M's proposal was the strongest of the three received and will provide a broad array of expertise that would support from experts at ALTA planning and design, DCAS and associates, Sprint communications, design and culture lab, and enviro issues for public and stakeholder involvement. Okay.
 Total contract amount is $590,696, including $98,785 in contingency tasks. We have a 13-month schedule, which you can see here.
 And an exciting aspect of this project is the funding we have includes this planning and development phase, but then also funding for capital construction. So once our 13 months of planning and development are complete, we will be moving into the design and construction of actual improvements in the central city.
 The end result of this phase will be a prioritized project list. So you can see here our project budget. We have $9 million, 8.04 for design and construction. At the end of this planning and development phase, we will bring to council a prioritized project list that's been vetted by our stakeholder process. And the first tier of projects will fit within that
 $8.04 million that we have available. We'll also bring a second tier of projects that we'd hope to construct within the near term, like a five-year window, and a third tier that we considered but hadn't advanced. As I said, primarily the funding is from this federal funds via Metro, the Regional Flexible Fund Program, but we're also using funding allocated to the project from Fixing Our Streets, the gas tax. Any questions you might have? Questions? Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz then. Commissioner Fish. I just have a Scrivener's error if you'd accept it. It's just CH2M now. It's not Hill. So if we could do that. And while I'm asking Carla on the consent agenda, there was Portland Community Media which is now Open Signal. Sorry, I think that's how they submitted it. We're all getting used to them. Sounds like a great project though. I've been really impressed with the TriMet drivers when we first started doing them all downtown with light rail and everything. I thought there's
 no way that we're going to be able to do that. But now on both the MAX and the bus, the drivers know what they're doing. I have the most grounded office in City Hall because it's right at the level. And there was an accident, a crash last week when somebody tried to turn right where it very clearly says do not turn right. So to the extent that we're going to make it even clearer where people are supposed to be and then to encourage those who are not familiar with it to perhaps use different routes, I think that would be very helpful.
 Thank you. I have a question. Now that I do a lot more walking downtown, I'm shocked at actually what I observed. And this morning I almost got run over as someone made a turn going up the wrong way on the street. Sorry about that, Commissioner. Yes. Yes.
 He was in a rush. That's funny. I don't judge. But I do think our downtown, as it's getting more congested, and some of the streets are harder to navigate. Out-of-town people that don't realize, like, once you get on the bus mall, you can't make those right turns, for example. Or at least if you do it, it's very, very hazardous because you might get hit by a bus or a MAX. But I want to ask you another question, which is,
 I fully support this and the whole concept of trying to make all the pieces work. And, you know, in the last election cycle, a lot of people talked about, you know, tackling congestion in our city and figuring out how you can do that. And I welcome it. The challenge is we can do our piece, but there's so many other pieces that impact this problem. And the one I'll just cite, too, that I had some challenges with yesterday is the loss of four lanes on the Morrison Bridge. Okay.
 So yesterday I need to get from City Hall to Mississippi in order to meet with a friend from the Rebuilding Center, and I encountered four failed intersections getting on the Morrison Bridge. And so I started thinking –
 And they were failed because everybody was jumping the yellow to get through the intersection, and it didn't matter, everybody. So they were just failed, and you couldn't move, and you couldn't get on the Morrison. So it took me over an hour to get from City Hall to Mississippi. And the question I wanted to ask is, at what point do we need to consider having –
 at those intersections, at these critical places where there are failed intersections, when you have this confluence of things happening, construction, bridge work, and others. So there's actually, like every other city you visit, someone who's managing the traffic and helping to deal with the chaos, particularly at rush hour. You mean a traffic cop? Like a traffic cop.
 because there are certain places that are worse than others because just of the bridge work and the construction. And I understand there's a cost, so probably the answer is there's a cost. But in other cities that I visit, in Europe and in this country, at rush hour and some of those places, you'll have a person, a traffic cop, helping people navigate. We don't usually do that.
 The closest thing we have, ironically, is when TriMet rerouted the streetcar and did some max work. I've actually never seen so many traffic cops at every intersection in the city. In fact, they were –
 so conscientious at the intersections I walked by, they had three people just standing around managing the traffic, telling you you couldn't walk, you couldn't traverse or managing. So I guess the question is, under what circumstances would we consider having a human being manage the traffic at some of these failed intersections?
 Well, I don't know if I can speak for the Bureau on this, but I think generally when we have construction projects that are impacting regular routes of travel and people are having to make detours and take other routes, that's a good time to be providing people with additional direction. Do we have such people? No.
 Well, you know, we have a lot of construction projects going on this summer. Does PBOT have a core of people that are traffic control folks who are trained who can do that? Not that I'm aware of, no. It's just interesting. Morrison Bridge losing four lanes is a significant event, and I guess it would also be helpful if there's a sign –
 I should have known this, and I have to use Google more effectively. But there's actually no sign telling you that you should beware taking the right turn off a fourth because you're about to hit a mess. I wonder if – and you're not the right person to put this question to. I'll take it up with Leah. But I wonder if at some point, just from a public safety point of view, we should have folks who are in those intersections. Yeah.
 We do have, we have recharted an effort that I'm aware of that maps all the construction projects. Get Around Portland, that's on our website now. So Google or the PBOTS website can give you a little bit more heads up. No, I think it would probably, my app would probably crash from all the inputs there.
 And it's a challenging time. It's a good thing. We've got cranes. We've got all this activity. But we do have a lot of failed intersections, and that creates a lot of more hazards for people. And I would say forget about me spending an hour going what's normally a 10-minute trip. I notice that for pedestrians it's extremely dangerous. And that would be, I think, a primary reason to have a person managing the traffic. Okay.
 But I'll take that up. Thank you. Commissioner, as a former flag girl on the trolley, the waterfront trolley, I would volunteer to be your personal flag girl. But this new job is just killing me. I'm sorry, guys. It's been a tough week.
 So this is the beginning stages, correct? Correct. Because my concern off the bat is I don't see anything about accessibility for people with mobility challenges, site impairments, et cetera. Nothing real specific. I see accessible. I see removing barriers. And I just want to...
 put my pitch in there that when you form that stakeholder committee that that's going to include advocates from the disability community because if we should really be applying universal design principles to projects like this so they are the most accessible to the most people right off the bat which makes them great for everybody.
 Thank you. That's my two cents. Yeah, I appreciate that. I'll note that one of the strategies we're using for this project, because the geography is so large, is to, rather than a sort of traditional stakeholder advisory committee like we've used for most PBOT projects, we'll have what we're calling a sounding board based off of a model in Seattle. So it'll be a group that will help refer us to other people so that we can have a project that –
 a body that can hopefully wears lots of different hats for the central city. Um, but then when we get down to specific design questions on particular streets, we can really bring in the people who are, um, stand to benefit or, um, be impacted or might be using it. So cool. Yeah. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Is there any public testimony? I believe one person is still left. Charles bridge crane Johnson. Very good. Thank you. The trip to sound travels. Um,
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. It's not Jesse Spomberg. But even though we scared Hill off of the CH2M name, there's still the newer commissioners might not be as familiarized with the polar, the newest commissioner and the mayor might not know that some of us who are still insistent that under no authority, city authority or state authority, will there be fluoride in the Portland water,
 are also no fans of CH2M Hill and the tightness there between Randy Leonard and some things that went on in the Water Department before y'all's time. On this particular work that CH2M will be doing, I also maybe share some concerns that Commissioner Udaly raised, and that there's...
 maybe an equity problem here for people with disabilities. I'm by no means an expert on disabled person mobility, but one thing I notice is when I go through the city, it's very strange which crosswalks have audible assistance and which do not. Now, sometimes I think there may be a guideline that non-four-way intersections, such as Burnside and 18th and 19th over by the Timber Stadium...
 When you have an intersection that's an unstandard shape, it's very hard for a person that has trained hearing to know what's going on in the intersection, whereas a lot of people, when they get to a normal four-way intersection, can just listen. They don't need something going, or whatever the audible cue is. But I think that improving equity, even though this is close to the finalization of the proposal –
 that maybe you all connect with your favorite person on PCOD and see where there's room to tighten this up so that for our half a million dollars to CH2M, people that are participating in PCOD and representing that community can make sure that their voice about safety is getting heard. And also, I think it's beyond the scope of CH2M's work, but I think that... I don't know where it is, planning sustainability or PBOT, but the idea that intersections fail and...
 I don't think they need to be police. They could be types of Pivot employees that could just be standing there in the intersection and see, I've got to encourage this car to move so that the other car can use its green light. May, as our city grows, become... I'm sure some tech people will tell us, no, there's a better way. But either we need to have tech people jobs figuring it out, or the next generation of Commissioner Daly flag girl people at the intersection making sure that the red and green...
 get obeyed or people know how they have to divert. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any further public testimony? Hearing none, please call the roll. Fish. Thank you for the presentation. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is passed. Thank you. Next item, please.
 $599,000, except bid of Biohabitats, Inc., for the Sandy River Engineered Log Jams Project for $1,348,176. Very good. Why don't you come on up? I'll just let you jump right in. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services.
 You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Biohabitats, Inc. for the Sandy River Engineered Log Jams Project for $1,348,176. The original engineer's estimate on this project was $2.3 million, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate. On November 9, 2016, Council approved the Ordinance 18813 for procurement services to competitively solicit the Sandy River Engineered Log Jams Project.
 The project was advertised to the city's electronic procurement system, and bids were opened on February 14, 2017. Two bids were received in response to the solicitation, and Biohabitats, Inc. is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $1,348,176, which, after significant adjustments based on project refinement, is minimally under the adjusted engineer's estimate.
 Portland Water Bureau, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal for certified DMW ESB subcontractor and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction costs. There is a total of 87,000, or 6.45%, of DMW ESB subcontractor participation apportioned as follows, a DBE $22,000 doing trucking and flagging and ESB $65,000 for trucking,
 Biohabitats Inc. is located in Portland, Oregon, is not a state-certified DMWESP contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration and they are in full compliance with the city's contract requirements. The total participation of certified firms for this project, including the non-certified general contractor, is $87,000, which is only 6.45%. The primary scopes of work involved in this project are highly specialized in-water work with very few firms available in the area.
 Significant outreach was done to involve as many certified firms as possible in the available divisions of work. If the council has any other questions concerning the project, there are representatives from Portal Water Bureau and the contractor here. So I have just a quick question. When a confidence level is moderate, it's not unusual for us to see the bids come in above the estimate.
 This is one of those rarities where we had a moderate confidence level, which I understand is heavily prescribed by sort of the standards that we use, and yet the bid came in 41 percent below the estimate. Do we have a sense of why we are the beneficiary of such good fortune? Okay.
 Part of that is significant project refinement as we went through the thing. And another piece of this is this particular firm is doing similar work in the same waterway for other agencies, which has allowed us to – there's a continuity of operations type of benefit to this whole project. So as things move forward, the estimate could get more and more closely refined. The project could become more defined. And then cost came in, essentially what it's going to take to do the project. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. So in the impact statement, it says there was a conclusion. It was one primary factor that contributed to the project coming in under budget. And what was that one primary? There is. Steve Kutch is from Portal Water Bureau is here. I believe it's the thought process of continuity. Steve? Steve, thank you for being with us most of the day. Good afternoon. Steve Kutch is the Environmental Compliance Manager of the Water Bureau and also the
 project manager of the habitat conservation plan that we've talked to with council, and this is one project underneath that overall program.
 Since we turned in the engineering estimate and approached council in November, we did some serious head scratching about how we met our biology goals for this project, and we refined that and reduced the amount of work. Therefore, when we sent it out to bid, it was a much tighter project to still reach our initial goals, but it came in with less money, and there is some saving of effort because this contractor is doing work on two different project sites separately,
 on the Sandy River, so there is some cost savings with demobilization and mobilization costs that would be incurred by this project activity. That's helpful, but the impact statement says we've come to the conclusion there was one primary factor that contributed to the project coming in. So what was that one primary factor? The reduce of scope for the lessening of excavation for the work. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. And we will get a final report on this project when it's done, right? Yes.
 Oh, yes. Yes, ma'am, you will. And there will be press and there will be a lot of attention for this project. Good. And the code requires that the low bidder come back to council for an increase of 25% or more. Is that correct? Yes, ma'am. Yes. Yeah. So I will be looking specifically for this one. And I've been concerned for a long time that sometimes companies put in a low bid and then there's more and more things come up and so it ends up that they wouldn't have been the low bidder if,
 we'd know what the final cost was going to be. So I realize that everybody's making an educated guess at this point, but I'd like it specifically called out when it comes back. When will it be completed? We have some restrictions because this type of work has to be done with what's called an in-water work window. And for the Sandy River, that's from July 15th to August 31st. And that's to be protective of the aquatic habitat. So all of these activities have to be focused on that time period. So it'll be done by the end of next summer, is that the hope? By the end of this summer.
 Yes, I meant. So it's going out soon. Thank you. Nice job. And thanks for sticking around all day. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? I believe he's already left. Mr. Sponberg. I'm sorry. Mr. Sponberg left. Okay. I don't see him here. Mayor, I move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion before we call the roll? Call the roll.
 Fish. I just want to acknowledge we're using a lot of public money here to create more log jams. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. I'd almost vote against it just because of the humor quotient not being up to snuff. All right. The report is accepted. Thank you. Next item, please. But these are engineer log jams. There you go.
 Item 600, accept bid of Titan Utilities LLC for the Southwest Vista Avenue Water Main Improvements Project for $630,365. Good afternoon again. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Titan Utilities LLC for the Southwest Vista Water Main Improvement Project for $630,365.
 The engineer's estimate on this project was $655,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was high. On November 9, 2016, Council approved Ordinance 188083 for procurement services to competitively solicit the Southwest Vista Water Main Improvements Project.
 The project was advertised in the city's electronic procurement system, and bids were opened on February 14, 2017. Four bids were received, and responsible bidder at 600, and Titan Utilities is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $630,365, which is 3.8% under the engineer's estimate.
 The Portland Water Bureau, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal for certified DMWSB subcontractor and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction costs.
 There is a total of $127,290, or 20.2% DMW ESB subcontractor participation apportioned as follows. DBEs doing $125,790 doing trucking, flagging, saw cutting, and testing, and ESB at $1,500 doing additional testing.
 Titan Utilities is located in Beaverton, Oregon, and is a state-certified DMW ESB contractor. They have a current City of Portland business tax registration number and in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements. The total participation of certified firms for this project, including the certified general contractor, is $606,549, which is 95.13%.
 Interestingly, it seems that the certified firms understand the value of the subcontractor equity programs and routinely subcontract work to other certified firms that they could, in fact, self-perform. If the council has any questions concerning the bidding process, I can answer that, or there are representatives from Port of Water Bureau here. Very good. Any further questions?
 None yet. The perils of doing a procurement report late in the day. Any public testimony on this? Carla, does Mr. Spomberg wish to testify on this? No, he did not. I move the report. Second. We have a motion and a second from the usual suspects in their respective orders. Please call the roll. Fish? Outstanding numbers on this. Thank you, team. Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 So I very much appreciate you calling attention to the contractors being willing to subcontract, even though they could do it themselves. Some of our other major bidders could learn a lesson from that. Aye. Yes, ma'am, they could. Wheeler. Always happy to see balance in terms of these coming in above or below original estimate. So thank you for providing that balance on the positive side here. Aye. The report is accepted. Call the next item, please.
 Item 601, bid of Moore Excavation, Inc., for the Woodlawn King Street Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $5,726,410.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Moore Excavation. The engineer's estimate on this project was $4,692,000 with a high confidence level. On April 4, 2017, five bids were received and Moore Excavation is the low bidder at $5,722,000.
 $6,410. You're screwing up my whole thesis. Yeah, you're screwing up my whole plan. I have another one after this. All right, good. It's 26% over the engineer's estimate. The Bureau of Environmental Services has evaluated the bid items, and the costs for mobilization, trench, backfill, pipe, spot repair, have increased due to local market conditions for materials and labor. BES accepts the proposed pricing as good. Okay.
 The City put forward an aspirational goal for DMWESB subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction costs for this project. More excavation identified five divisions of work for DMWESB opportunities with participation at 11.2% or $640,538.67.
 with work being performed in trucking, saw cutting, traffic control, concrete, and erosion control. I will turn this back over to Council. There are representatives from the contractor and BES here. Christine, we've had this conversation before, but probably not with the two newest members of the Council, so I just want to pose the question.
 In this instance, following the guidelines established by the city, the Bureau rated the project estimate confidence as high. But when the engineers do their estimating, technically they don't take into consideration market conditions. And so currently we are in a market where we know that there's –
 There's a crane in every corner. And as a result, according to the Portland Business Journal, you're starting to see inflation crop into bids and construction costs. Why? Because there's more work than available firms and bodies, and so we're bidding the prices up. And so could you just remind us – and this comes up periodically, but I don't know that we've had this conversation recently –
 This tension, could you address this tension between our estimating protocol and how you could get to a high estimate? But as you said, the bids came in above the estimates because of market conditions and whether we should revise our guidelines for doing estimates to take into consideration market conditions. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you, Commissioner. I think for – I'm not sure when this estimate was done, but what we're seeing here in – and BES is usually pretty good at doing things pretty close to when they're bidding them out. What we're seeing is that there's just rapid market changes. I mean, they're happening on a daily, weekly basis, and so even if there was an estimate that was done right before the bid going out, you know, there's market conditions that could have changed significantly.
 There are some representatives from BES that maybe can explain about this project. I just – because it's been a long day, I'm happy just to plant the seed. But, I mean, so in my conversations with the utilities, from time to time, when faced with a trend where it looks like the market is working against us, I've suggested downgrading the estimate from high to medium.
 And the look I get back is almost like I've committed an ethical public offense in suggesting to do that. And my thinking is, if we think the prices in the market are going to come in above the estimate, I don't want my engineers in a situation where they have to defend, well, you said it's a high confidence, but now look, the bids are well above, so you obviously don't know what you're doing. Well, we're not –
 We don't have a crystal ball, and we don't know day-to-day what's happening in the market. But my understanding is that, again, the protocols for estimating these projects really don't fully take into account market conditions.
 And so you could do your job, come in and say high probability, high confidence, but it could be that you're heading into a blizzard in terms of the market, in which case the prices are going to get bid up. So in that case, Commissioner, I would agree with you. So if we do know that marketing conditions are changing and you do know that you're not going to have a contract and it's not going to bid out for a little while, then it would be appropriate to put medium in there. It would be.
 It seems to me, if you know that market conditions are changing, that you would put a medium of confidence in that. So I may need to have you to come to one of our joint meetings, A, to defend me, and B, to help us understand how to do that. So, Nick, I think one of the contractors would also like to come up and add some commentary. Please come on up, sir. And if you could just state your name for the record. I'm Gary Stevens. No, not – yeah, uh-uh, uh-uh. You've got to wait until you get up there. Another thing that –
 Can you state your name for the record? Gary Stevens with Morricks Innovation. I'm the operations manager. Thank you. One thing that also, in addition to market conditions, one thing that's greatly impacting our costs of doing work is the traffic congestion. You know, if you envision, especially on a job like this project, where there's a lot of open cut, we have to get rid of a lot of traffic.
 We call it spoils or excavation. And you look at the four or five key areas that allow disposal of materials and pickup, it's either 190th and Division, Scappoose, or Tigard, or Canby. Well, the way the traffic's impacting our cycle times are greatly increasing as much as 25%, 30%. So that...
 That has a big impact on top of the market conditions of doing work. Well, I'm going to make a motion, Mayor, that we pay for this gentleman's transportation costs to go down to Salem and testify in support of the state transportation bill. Because that's the argument we're now hearing from legislators outside the Portland area, that they're hearing that there are such challenges around freight mobility that our problem has become their problem. And it's quite disturbing to hear that there's really – I envision –
 that the counties, the cities, the state, and Metro were all working on this great plan to eventually have a solution to our traffic congestion in the metro area.
 But I was informed by Mr. Wheeler a year ago when he came and spoke to our utility contractors association. He knew who the audience was, and he immediately said before we started, if you think there's a plan in place, there's not, which is really disturbing for our industry. The cost of business, if you can imagine each one of those dump trucks costing $125 to $130 an hour,
 And when you have 10 or 15 of them on the road and they're sitting on I-5 not moving, the cost of business to us is astronomical. Well, and you're suggesting you're making the case that those costs are then borne by our rate payers. Well, we have to pass them on to you. I mean, unfortunately, but I guess my point is several. It's not only, yes, market prices have gone up on materials greatly. Yes, labor is going up.
 But there's other variables such as traffic, cycle time, putting more trucks on to be able to just get – you've got a crew over here trying to get production, and you don't have the trucks there that they can load out. So you've got to add more trucks that are stuck in traffic. Well, thank you for that, sir. That's very helpful. Good context.
 appreciate that very much you have my soapbox here for a minute that was a good soapbox thank you we'll try to find out who this wheeler guy was who said that to you because that's it just speaking for the council it's outrageous it's outrageous it's good to know i was depressing a year ago too commissioner fritz thank you mayor um so i really appreciate the details in the impact statement that the seven different parts of the bid broken out to explain why it was more or less and that's
 clear for anybody who's wondering. So congratulations on that. Just going back to the previous agenda item though, were there other opportunities for subcontracting that Moore Excavation chose to do itself? Yes. We identified 10 categories and we solicited 55 different contractors. We only received 11 responses in five categories. We
 So we only received 11 out of 55 solicitations, 20% or 20%. Five were no response at all in five categories. Three were just one response. One was two responses. And then we got six trucker, which sort of inflated the response. This totals...
 Our dollar amount of $640,000 from this contract equates to 50% of our subcontracted amount for this job, which a year ago, if you remember, we had a 35% goal of subcontracted amount, but we changed it.
 to 20% gross of the contract. The city changed their policy. The city changed their policy. Yes, we did. So I'm saying a year ago, the city policy was 35% of the subcontract. And this equates to 50%. So we...
 If this would have taken place a year ago, we would have greatly surpassed the subcontracted amount. That's why we changed our policy, Gary. That's why we changed the policy. I'm curious. That's not the question I was asking. Oh. Were there potentially other tasks that you chose not to put out as subcontracting possibilities? We solicit everything.
 Like I say, 10 scopes of work, asphalt paving, saw cutting, concrete work, hauling services, traffic control, erosion control, video TV, carried in place, manhole rehab, pest control. And like I said, out of those 10 only, we had five no responses at all in those categories. I'm not being clear, obviously. Okay.
 You identified the categories. Could there have been other categories that could have been bid out, but more excavation chose to self-perform? I don't know of any. That's all the subcontracting possibilities that there are. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. So I just wanted to address one of the reasons we did change our policy is because of 35% on subcontracting. If you were not subcontracting, you were self-performing all the work.
 it was easy to make the percentage, but there was not dollars actually going to minority and women businesses. So that was the emphasis on us changing the policy to the overall project value.
 so that there would be more meaningful opportunities for minority and women businesses. And so we're not meeting that because that's 5.7 million, only about 640,000, and 5 million to the prime contractor and a smaller amount to subcontractors. Is that correct? That's correct.
 And so our goal is an aspirational goal. That's correct, Commissioner. When you're considering the bids, does that factor in to which bid you accept as to how much minority subcontracting there is? Unfortunately, we cannot view, since it's an aspirational goal, it is not a responsiveness issue. There's other ways that we can kind of go around trying to increase participation, but it is not a responsiveness issue.
 I see. Thank you. And obviously, Mayor, it's one of the crucial things that we still need to work on with our equity policies and our work is this issue of where does the money go. So thank you very much. Very good. Thank you. Yes, sir. If I may say one thing. You know, another thing that in the marketplace, because of the robust economy, we're competing against the private work that's going on in the Tri-County area.
 And there's a lot of that. I mean, even ourselves, we turn a lot of work away that we just can't accommodate. And a lot of these minority contractors are doing private work because it's easier paperwork-wise, if you will. They don't have to comply with apprenticeship and all that other requirements. I'm not saying that those are bad, but reality sets in. It's easier to do private work than it is public work.
 et cetera. So that's another factor. But we're hearing that, sir, also from the building trades. I mean, they're at 100 percent, and they're bringing people in from outside the state. So there are capacity issues. But that also then gives us an opportunity. If you flip that around, one of the things we could be thinking about is how can we grow more
 qualified firms to compete for this work. And what you hear from a lot of the smaller firms is access to capital, being able to get bonding, other kinds of things. So if we want to create more opportunity, we also have to think about creating more players that can actually come in and compete. Well, one area that you can help that is not having the city self-perform as much work as they do.
 And issue more of that to the minority contractors because the city self-performs a lot of work. You've heard of it before, you know, the amount of paving that PBOT does and et cetera. If they would set aside some of that work, more of that work to minority contractors, they would be able to accomplish those goals. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Appreciate that. Can I get a motion? So moved. We have a testimony. Okay.
 That's fine here. We have a motion and a second, I'm predicting. Second. We're dicing it up. Now we'll take public testimony if there is any. Charles Bridgecain Johnson. Here he comes, the man, the myth, the legend.
 We still have a few more items to go. Charles, we're going to lose a quorum here. It'll be brief. Because actually, it's your fault for letting the great contractor testify about one of the most problematic issues here, especially for the people who will be coming tomorrow. For the record, Charles Bridge, Crane & Johnson. I don't know about the... I'm not an expert on the material and the disposal and what options are available at Ross Island Cement or how far, where this particular worksite is located in relation to 197th, but...
 um dirty diesel trips in washington park dirty diesel trips here so i think as you uh look at the comprehensive greenness of city contracting maybe ways to incentivize i know it's a rough balance between minority contractors who sometimes have older equipment but uh and also maybe there's room for innovation in thinking about uh
 I don't know the nature of the excavation at Ross Island and what can be taken there as far as if they can take in as well as send out materials or reuse there. But I think that that might be a contributing factor for some projects cycle time, especially in urban core projects. If they have removal of material that cannot be used on site.
 If there are closer places than 197th, that's better for air quality. So there's some room for innovation here. Also, maybe with the College of Urban Studies, earlier Mr. Fish, you raised the topic of getting maybe more comfortable degrees of certainties about the financial costs. And to open that up for both the tech community and the academic community to interact with the city is an opportunity engine for the city. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And we, anyway, call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. We have three more items. We're going to lose our quorum fairly quickly, so I'm going to ask that we limit public testimony to one minute for the last three items, but I will not be a jerk about it.
 But if we can keep it short so we don't lose the quorum, I'd appreciate it. Next item, please. Item 602, accept bid of Raymoor Construction LLC for the Whitaker Ponds entry improvements for $600,432. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Hello, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Lauren McGuire. I'm here as the Development Program Manager for Portland Parks.
 And with me is Allison Rouse, who's the Capital Project Manager for this project, Whitaker Ponds, and also, of course, Christine Moody, our Procurement Officer. We're here today to request that Council accept a bid from Raymoor Construction for Whitaker Ponds Entry Improvement Project. It's located at 7040 Northeast 47th Avenue, just across Columbia Boulevard from the Cully neighborhood. For the amount of $600,432.
 Whitaker Ponds Nature Park is a 25-acre natural area located on Northeast 47th. Amid largely industrial development, it's a natural treasure. It's very popular for nature-based activities like birdwatching and kayaking, and it also hosts many environmental education programs. PPNR and our on-site partner, the Columbia Slough Watershed Council, provide a variety of volunteer stewardship and maintenance activities in this location.
 However, the access is challenging. You can see in the lower left-hand corner of the slide, there's no parking other than the muddy shoulder and no sidewalks along 47th. And that's a busy and important freight street. So our project goals for this project include parking and safer pedestrian access along Northeast 47th and fully accessible pathways to site amenities and an inviting entrance. Could you go back to the map so I can look at that for just one second? Sure.
 You can see 47th. 47th is there to the left. Right. Okay, where is the improved sidewalk going to be? Is it just in the red box or is it green? It's going to be actually on both sides of the street between Columbia Boulevard and Cornfoot. Very good. Thank you. Sorry for the interruption. Oh, no, that's fine. Totally. Okay.
 So this rendering illustrates the proposed Whitaker Ponds entry improvements. North is to the left, and the two ponds are to the top of the image. At the bottom is 47, so we've turned the image a little bit here. The project will develop the entrance with a Nature Park 22-space parking lot that you can see in yellow there. It has two ADA spaces to the right, and then two bus parking spaces that are highlighted in yellow at the top of the parking area.
 We also have parking lot lighting in that area. That's primarily to help us manage kind of a persistent petty crime issue that we have there.
 We're also going to be, you can see the white areas there, those are connecting the parking area, their sidewalks, to the existing site amenities, like the SLU watershed facility at the right and the pond overlook and boardwalk. Also in green now is the small gathering area, which has casual boulder-style seating. And then we have a plaza with furnishings that have a bike rack and benches.
 And then finally a stormwater facility in the middle of the parking lot area. Is the parking that you've identified here that we're building, will that be metered parking? No. Why is that? This is Allison Rouse. No. And I? Why not? Good question. I don't know. We charge, I mean, there's a number of places. We charge people in Washington Park. We charge people in...
 in the area around Hannah, the new pump station we're going to be opening. So I'm just curious, why wouldn't we charge people here to recover some of the costs of providing parking? That is a new idea in my understanding. However, I would point out that the places where the Parks Bureau has metered parking are very, very dense, where there's a lot of competition for the parking, whereas this area is in industrial northeast Portland and will be –
 Not at all dense. We don't expect any competition for the parking here. Okay. But just in terms of the planning, it was not designed to be metered parking. Obviously, that's something you could revisit in the future if it turned out that you had some cost issues of maintaining. Totally true. You'll also see down at the bottom of the slide now the area of the right-of-way work along Northeast 47th.
 that PBOT will be doing. We'll be doing this as part of a local improvement district with PBOT, and they'll be doing improvements on both sides of the road from Columbia Boulevard, as I said, all the way to Cornfoot.
 As far as our public process goes, the project is implementing one of the projects proposed in the 2006 Master Plan for the Natural Area. It was conducted with significant public process at that time. In 2012, Parks BES and the Columbia Slough Watershed Council conducted a conceptual design process for the entry project. And this project started with that 2012 concept as its basis.
 The public process focused on the entry design included an open house to get feedback on the proposed design. The open house was preceded by an English and Spanish outreach campaign to the Cully neighborhood, to Verde, and to the Native American Youth Academy. It also included door-to-door outreach to the immediate neighbors.
 Briefings of the Columbia Watershed Council and the Native American Community Advisory Council. And we also consulted with the Audubon Society in particular concerning the design of the parking lot lighting so that we wouldn't degrade the wildlife habitat.
 Also, we also always do website updates and email notifications, as with all of our projects. The total estimated project cost for these improvements is basically about $2.2 million, of which $1 million is our contribution to PBOT's local improvement district to rebuild 47th Avenue, and the remainder, $1.2 million approximately, is the estimated total cost for the design, the permitting, the administration, and the construction of the entry improvements.
 This project is also made possible through the support of Metro's Nature and Neighborhoods Grant, and also SDC funds, as you see up on the screen. The project timeline, we're going to break ground in June, and then we expect to be finished in September, October. PBOT, their work is going to start in January and run through July of 2018. Thank you.
 As far as the improvements for PBOT, they couldn't be here today, so I'm going to try and pitch hit for them. PBOT's doing reconstruction of a failed asphalt roadway. They're going to be doing it in concrete because it's a freight road, and they expect it to last for generations. They will reconstruct and extend stormwater and sanitary sewer, including replacing a 92-year-old cast iron water main.
 They will also be doing full pedestrian and bicycle connections on both sides of the street, as we talked about earlier, to connect underserved Cully to jobs in the Columbia Corridor. They will be providing a crossing, a signalized mid-block crossing as well, to protect the vulnerable pedestrians coming across the street. And the design is compliant with AASHTO and Freight District standards. Okay. Okay.
 So what Lauren explained was the overall project, but what is before you today is the procurement report recommending a contract award to Raymoor Construction. The engineer's estimate on this project was $606,000 with a confidence level of medium.
 On April 11, 2017, four bids were received, and Raymoor Construction is the low bidder at $600,432. Portland Parks and Recreation. So close. So close. So close. We're in the middle of the road here. Each one today, one's been over, one's been under. So Portland Parks and Recreation has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing.
 The city put forward an aspirational goal for DMW-ESB subcontractor and supplier utilization at 20% of the hard construction cost. Raymoor Construction identified four divisions of work for DMW-ESB participation, with subcontracting participation at 31%, with work being performed in electrical, surveys, asphalt paving, and striping. Raymoor Construction is a certified minority disadvantaged business, so the total combined cost,
 DMWSB on this project is 95%. Excellent. Thank you. Appreciate it. And that concludes the presentation. Very good. Excellent. Any questions of the panel before we call for public testimony? Very good. Public testimony? No one signed up to accept the report. Commissioner Udaly moves. Commissioner Fish will second this time. We'll just give her that win today. Please call the roll. Fish. Nice job. Aye.
 I forgot to thank Commissioner Fish for finally rehabbing the sewers in my neighborhood. Sorry, that was a prior item. Aye.
 I've been pondering Commissioner Fish's question about parking meters, and I can't think of any paid street parking or off-road cycling that's further away than the Lloyd District. So that might be a conversation that we would have as we start getting even more and more vehicles on the road. But I think enforcement in a remote area like this that's not connected with other areas might be cost prohibitive. Other than that, thank you very much, ladies, for all of your work.
 Wheeler. Aye. The report's accepted. Thanks. Looks great. Next item, please. Item 603, authorize a borrowing of not more than $44,312,000 in anticipation of the fire and police disability and retirement fund levy for fiscal year 2017-18.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. This emergency ordinance authorizes the issuance of up to $44,312,000 in tax anticipation notes to fund FPD&R's annual cash flow deficit. As you will recall from past years, the city issues tax anticipation notes each year to fund FPD&R expenses incurred in a fiscal year prior to the seed of property tax revenues in late November. Is that correct?
 Because FPD&R cannot legally carry over sufficient fund balances to pay these early fiscal year expenses, it's necessary to issue tax anticipation notes to avoid a cash flow deficit. We expect to sell the tax anticipation notes in early July, and the notes will be repaid by June 30th of 2018.
 Happy to answer any questions. And how much does it cost for us to do that? Pardon? What's the interest or the costs to doing that? Right now, the, we call one-year note index is about .85, so I'd say .85 to 1% interest rate for the one-year borrowing. Thank you. Tell that to my credit card company. Yeah. Very good. Any further questions before we go to public testimony? Public testimony? No one signed up. Call the roll. Call the roll. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Well, we do this every year, and thank you for your work. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance has stopped it. Thank you. Appreciate it. Last item, I believe. Item 604, authorize $220,922,137 million of general obligation bonds for affordable housing projects. Aye.
 Thank you again, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, Eric Johanson, City Debt Manager. This emergency ordinance does authorize $220.9 million approximately of additional general obligation debt to fund affordable housing costs. As you may recall, on May 18th, the city closed its first series of bonds under last November's GO bond authorization to fund a portion of the cost of acquiring the Ellington Apartments.
 This ordinance will authorize the issuance of the remaining authority under last November's bond measure. While the ordinance authorizes issuing the remaining authority, the actual debt issuance is expected to occur over a multi-year period.
 The financing plan, which has been a joint effort of the Housing Bureau and Debt Management, calls for the establishment of a revolving line of credit in the approximate amount of $75 million. This line of credit, when established, will be available to be drawn upon on short notice to respond to acquisition and development opportunities as they arise. At such time as a sufficiently large balance has been accumulated on the line of credit, we'll issue long-term bonds to take out the line of credit.
 Amounts that are repaid from long-term bonds will then be available to be reborrowed under the line of credit. The total amount of new money bonds that may be issued cannot exceed the $220.9 million. A final provision in this ordinance is a requirement that before any projects are funded, either through the line of credit or through long-term debt, Council must specifically authorize the use of the GO bonds for that particular project.
 So whether that's through a resolution ordinance or other council action, we'll want to make sure that that's gotten specific approval from council before moving forward with the borrowing.
 Thank you. Any further questions? Commissioner Fritz? I have a question for you, Mayor, actually. What is the process for doing that? Because I know when we bought the parks bond to council, we've had a specific list. What will be the process for council reviewing how to spend this $220 million? That's a good question. I don't know yet. We'll sort it out and get it back to you. And the reason we're doing this is to get money as quickly as possible because we need to get the stuff built as quickly as possible, is that right? That's correct. Thanks.
 Good. Any other questions? Public testimony? Charles Bridgecrain-Johnson. Very good. This is our last item. Is that correct? Mm-hmm. Good. Thanks. While he's coming up, I'll just remind people tomorrow afternoon's agenda has changed. The item 609 on tomorrow afternoon's agenda was originally scheduled for 2 p.m. That's the 100% renewable energy agenda.
 proposal that will be heard at 3 p.m. tomorrow, Thursday, June 1st, instead of 2 p.m. Sorry for the interruption. Chag Sameach. My name is Charles Johnson. I know we can all look forward to Commissioner Schultzman bringing us a lot of cheesecake when he comes back. It's a traditional food for Pentecost. With the project for the housing bond, I think one thing that needs to influence our conversations we go forward is a number of local governments
 healthcare providers did a collaboration. I can't remember if it was around $20 million or $60 million about trying to put some new units into the market. And it's interesting. We don't know how we're going to spend this, exactly what we're going to do, but the bond was sort of marketed as, I can't remember now, 1,300 units or 1,300 families. But there was a disparity for anybody who did the basic math about the per unit cost difference
 that the coalition of health care providers is getting and what was projected with the rough estimate of the bond and that 1,300 number. So I hope that with the former state treasurer on board and Commissioner Shultzman back in, we can look at an arc that will give us a possibility to go beyond the 1,300 projection and still maintain the type of quality of units that we're getting in the Pearl with the permanent concrete steel construction. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Any further questions, conversation, please call the roll. Fish? So this is my understanding of what we're doing today. We are authorizing at some point in the future debt management to issue debt up to $220 million so that we can invest in affordable housing development. The bond measure actually has some very specific criteria around who we serve and at what income level.
 We've also established an oversight body whose task it will be to provide advice to council on projects as they come up. And the mayor, I think, has also established a technical committee of people who are going to help us shape some guidelines for what kinds of projects could be eligible in the future. So this is like authorizing a line of credit so that we can be nimble and act when the council is ready to. But my understanding from...
 The bond and from the ordinance before us is that it is all subject to the consultations, the guidelines, and ultimately a council direction. So with that understanding, I vote aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. We're adjourned.