Okay, I think we're ready. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the June 3rd meeting of Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll, Carla? Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Good morning, everyone. We have regular council business to come, but first we have a lot of students in the room today, and we're very happy about that. That's always a good day in council chamber. Let's hear it for Portland Public Schools students.
 We have two classes from Sunnyside, third grade classes upstairs. Welcome, Sunnyside. If you didn't get a chance to see Portland the Musical at Sunnyside when this group of students put it on earlier this year, you missed out on a very informative and entertaining show. So I was able to see it, and I loved it, and it's great having them here in the building. Thank you.
 We also are going to have a brief presentation this morning from some Robert Gray students who are doing civic studies, and they're TAG students, talented and gifted students, who won a contest at Concordia. And they're going to make a short presentation here before we take council communications. So I want to welcome the Robert Gray Middle School delegation and have them come on up, please. We're ready. Thank you.
 Good morning. Feel free to have a seat if there's some of you that are presenters. Or stand, either one, whatever you'd like. Just tell us who you are and proceed. I'm Benny Silverberg. My name is Matthew Dowling. I'm Adam Dowling. I'm Cole Yusbe. I'm Dee Joy. I'm Jacqueline Burke. I'm Emma Lebow. And we are all representatives from Robert Gray. Great. Well, welcome. Welcome. Thank you.
 As I'm sure you are aware, there are over 583,000 people in Portland. Many of these are children who would like to play sports but can't. The reason is something that really shouldn't be a problem. Did you know that most club sports cost around $1,000 a year? This is a problem for a lot of kids who want to play sports but can't because there is not enough money in the family to do something they love.
 Not only are sports fun for the students, but there are a lot of benefits. The GPA difference between athletes and non-athletes is a .81% difference, which for this statistic is amazing. Not only did they do better on their grades, they also did better in categories such as test scores and graduation rates.
 They also had fewer absence days, a lower dropout rate, and many fewer discipline referrals. Not only do athletes have better school statistics, but they also have better statistics later in life. They learn teamwork and healthy eating habits. The eating habits are especially important due to the increase in childhood obesity.
 They also do emotionally better. They have decreased anxiety and depression levels and increased parental support levels. Despite the popular belief, spending a lot of time at sports practice is actually a good thing. Right. Even with all the benefits we listed before, there are still more. However, with time, we need to address other topics, like what we hope to accomplish.
 We want City Hall to create a fund within the Parks and Recreation Department. This fund would be a well of money for low-income athletes to play sports. I'm sure you want to know how we would do this. Fortunately, we have an answer. We could get local sports companies like Nike and Adidas to sponsor us. A good way to do this is if we set up donation bins for equipment and money in the foyer of Nike, Adidas, or our schools.
 Like we said before, there are a lot of positive benefits that would help not only our community, but if the idea catches on, maybe other communities as well. All in all, we think this is a good idea and should be supported. Thank you for listening to our presentation. Are there any questions? Thank you.
 Thank you. Very well done. The council has moved one step in the direction that you've suggested already in that in the budget that we've just approved, we've put $2 million into a new program in the city to make our community centers free and available to teenagers across the city, starting actually in only a couple of weeks when the new fiscal year for the city starts. Thank you.
 So we've moved a step in that direction. But you're right, you've raised a really important issue. I've heard about this from parents that have had to choose which of their kids gets to participate in sports. So thanks for highlighting the issues. Other questions? You know, Commissioner Fritz has been using developer fees to build and rehabilitate fields for sports across the city, places like Delta Park, high schools.
 fields that are adjacent to schools and she's been a great champion of this so I want to acknowledge that work and you'll be happy to know thanks to the generosity of the taxpayers the regional soccer field at Reiki Elementary next to Wilson High School is going to get renovated as part of the bond measure that was passed and I would invite you to come back next year during the budget process we had an a request in for a six hundred thousand dollar scholarship
 fund in this year's budget. Unfortunately, we were not able to fund that because we're focusing on basic infrastructure, streets and such, and more fixes that are necessary in the parks. So we weren't able to fund it this year, but I know that the mayor is very concerned about it. And so if you can come back during the budget process next year, I would greatly appreciate it.
 I just wanted to say that I really appreciate that you suggested a tax to pay for this. I'm not saying that we could do it, but a lot of times people come to us and say, we think you should fund this thing without recognizing that that means either we raise a tax somewhere or we cut some existing thing. So I really appreciate the thoughtfulness and civic mightiness of your acknowledging this should have to be paid somehow, even if it's difficult.
 I also appreciate the suggestion about going to those very successful sports and athletic corporations here in Portland. Actually, we have more of them now. Under Armour is now opening an office in Portland. So we've become kind of a center for that kind of business. And I think it's reasonable to ask them to help with this, as you've suggested. Carla, are we all going to get an electronic copy of that excellent PowerPoint? I can send it.
 Sure. We'd all like to see it and maybe link it, and then all of us think about ways that we might be able to support this cause. And to follow up with you. So we always appreciate citizens who come in here with a good idea, and you certainly have. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. Let's hear it for Robert Gray. Good job. Thank you.
 All right. So we're going to move on to the communications portion of our calendar where citizens get to sign up for a three-minute slot, and they'll have a hard time following that presentation, but that's just the luck of the draw. And then we'll move on into regular council calendar after that. So would you call the first communications item, please, Carla? 548, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding budget. Rogers, good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Actually, my name is Craig Rogers. I'm going to be speaking on safety. In reference to the transportation meeting I attended yesterday with an emphasis on bikes, but also involved pedestrians and automobiles. About two months ago, I became aware that Leah Treat was going to be speaking at CABU on a bicycle program.
 And I heard her mention a proposed speed limit in Portland. As I recall, it was 25 miles an hour. And initially when I heard that, my knee-jerk reaction was, no way. And I thought about it. And things began to surface. And I became aware of the three children down in Eugene, that their mother took them to get an ice cream, and they were in the crosswalk with the light,
 And somebody came through, and the three children died. The mother survived. And then I became aware of the lady driving off Marine Drive, ended up in the river. And Alistair was there at the meeting, incredible young gentleman. So I started feeling, thinking more about this, and I'm on board 100% with the speed limit.
 coming down here in the city. I really think that it can't happen soon enough. A week ago when I was down here, I was talking to Josh about this, and little did I know that at the time on Cesar Chavez Boulevard at Gladstone, right while we were talking, a gentleman lost his life in a car and bike accident.
 Part of what influenced me is just those three kids down there in Eugene, and I'm glad there's so many children here because that's who we need to protect because this is about safety. And the day before that meeting, I was speaking with Leah on the phone, and I said when I come out of this meeting, you know, I don't want it to be just kind of homogenized and so many voices that there's no direction. And I said...
 I really want to do something here. And I reminded her of Woody Hayes. Because on the day that Woody Hayes died, on NPR, they played an interview with him. And they said, Woody, what makes a winner? And he goes, what makes a winner? He says, it's an attitude. An attitude put into action. Well, then last evening, I watched Alistair.
 on an interview on TV, and he said, this isn't so much about infrastructure as it is about attitude. And that's really what we need as a team working together, need to accomplish here to protect the citizens of this city. So thank you for letting me be here. Thanks very much. 549, request of Michael Krupp to address council regarding military and the commissioner of police. Mr. Krupp, come on up.
 Before I start, I'd like to say I'm glad it wasn't me that had to follow all those happy kids. To have appeared out of the shadows of nada, to run unopposed and then amok, is clear evidence of your allegiances. Before his premature but welcome self-deportation, the randisaurus Leonard sold our water to the devil. He paid a pal millions to do a study recommending burials.
 Who doesn't love a good burial? Randy is still enjoying the afterglow of that capital idea over in West Lynn. The devil hates the children of our mother. Water is what we are. Water is the mule God uses to smuggle spirit. Spirit means breath. Oxford English Dictionary. Spirit does not come from or live under the ground.
 The maximum amount of money is made in the industries of planetary misogyny and special misanthropy. Poison, bury the water, spew mercury, undercoat with tar, spray the Monsanto monster, plant gene-jumping crops, frack the earth, and cluster bomb the nursery. There is a tree whose name presages Kissinger's dream when he was Secretary of State.
 The Globe Ash. Its botanical name is Fractinus Globusum Excelsior. In The Wizard of Oz, there was one big projection of a fake doorman wannabe.
 In this, the time of the buzzard of is, we have millions of little wimp wannabes projected on little TVs. Little pixel-popping propagandists who wish for war and pray for plunder. A fake president doing a Nielsen-busting war dance. Terror Tuesday. Torture. Collateral bug splat. Terror.
 Family jails in the desert, wanton murder of unarmed African American youths, TPP and rectal feeding. How long until we have gourmet cannibalism, American style? The federal government of my beautiful motherland has become a danger to itself and others.
 Of all our energies towards maintaining our lives, more than 60% goes to the military as simple tribute. As mayor, we expect you to act like a one-way valve, allowing our municipal needs proper ingress and slamming clothes to prevent backflow out of our treasury. You have been installed backwards.
 By CH2M Hell. Incompetence or subterfuge, you don't fool us. In 1990, I read an unredacted copy where Henry Kissinger requested seven Mideast wars to clear the way for Africa genocide. Quote. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you for listening.
 okay 5 50. request of reverend kate lore and reverend dr charles curry jr to address council regarding city energy policy morning good morning good morning let me start by thanking you uh mayor hales for your leadership and pulling support for the pembina propane terminal and for you dan saltzman for um announcing your opposition as well last night may your courage inspire the rest of city council to follow suit
 My primary reason for being here this morning is to ask the City Council to write and adopt an energy policy that prohibits all future fossil fuel export projects from coming through our city. By this I mean any project involving the storage or transfer of oil, coal, liquefied natural gas, or propane. And I'll give you three sound reasons for this. One. Two.
 Climate change is already killing and ruining lives of the very people in Asia to whom we export fossil fuels. Recent news reports tell us that over 1,800 people in India have just died from record high temperatures attributed to climate change. That air pollution in cities like Delhi are now so bad that it's giving young children the lungs of heavy smokers, thereby shortening their lives.
 and that farmers in India have resorted to selling their children because climate change-related crop failures have left them penniless. Clearly, Asian countries need more clean energy alternatives, not more fossil fuel imports. Reason number two, the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change tells us that CO2 emissions from burning fossil fuels are still rising significantly.
 far too fast, putting us on a devastating path of global temperature increases of four to five degrees. These scientists and economists say that in order to save ourselves and our future generations, we need to reduce emissions by at least 40 percent by mid-century. So as a green city, Portland should be leading that effort. And reason number three?
 Portland has the moral obligation to halt anything that exploits Native Americans and First Nation peoples, the very people whose territories are being despoiled by fracking and tar sands. So members of council, if we do nothing, our climate will continue to spiral out of balance. To stabilize our climate for the long term, Portland must maintain its...
 climate champion status, and I ask that you to oppose any new fossil fuel infrastructure or fossil fuel exports from our region. Thank you for your time and attention. Thank you. Good morning. President Perry, good morning. Good morning.
 With only 30 seconds, 25 seconds left available to me, my written testimony is available for all of you. I will just note that the National Council of Churches, the U.S. Conference of Roman Catholic Bishops,
 interfaith religious bodies across the United States support the kind of measures that Reverend Lohr has talked about here today. And I support her call to you wholeheartedly. Thank you very much for your time. Thanks. Thank you both for coming. Don't normally, we usually just let folks speak.
 present in these communications items, but I want just a quick alert. I'm going to ask my council colleagues to help develop our message, but I also want to ask some people in the community to help develop our message as well, because I've been very honored to be invited to join a group of mayors from around the world in
 the Vatican in July to talk with His Holiness Pope Francis about both human trafficking and climate change, seemingly to some disconnected issues, but you just made the connection there, Reverend Lohr. So I'd love to have your help and counsel in developing the City of Portland's message to that gathering, again, along with my council colleagues and others in the community that worked on these issues. So your appearance here was timely. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Thanks to both. Thank you.
 Okay. Thank you. Number 551. Request of Chris Fountain to address council regarding proposed propane terminal. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning, Mary Hales and commissioners. I'm grateful for this opportunity to address you.
 For 27 days, an overwhelming majority of Portland citizens have been waiting, hoping to hear the news that four other commissioners have joined Mayor Hales in his brave and wise decision to reject Pembina's insistence that their application for a zoning amendment be brought before City Council. Yesterday, a caller to Commissioner Saltzman's office received the information that the commissioner has joined with Mayor Hales in opposition to hearing Pembina's application.
 If this information is reliable, Commissioner, I applaud your decision. Commissioners Fish, Novick, and Fritz, I stand as one of many thousands who believe that to revive this permitting process would be an insult to the experts and residents that have already spent countless hours bringing verified testimony against a project that should never have been proposed in Portland.
 I implore City Council to stand as one in resisting Pembina, a foreign company that has demonstrated a serious lack of competence in the area of rail and marine safety. Stand firm against pressure from the Port, a body that is unaccountable to Portland voters, by representing the voice of your constituents. Prioritize safety and environmental concerns over profit.
 reject partnering with the world's most destructive industries. Instead, redouble the city's efforts to build a vibrant and sustainable economy by promoting green jobs. Opposition to this project and others like it continues to grow in Portland and cities around the Northwest. Neighborhood associations, churches, and community organizations and others are standing to be counted among the opposition.
 This is a huge issue that won't go away until Pembina does. We are looking to City Council to represent us and to walking the sometimes bumpy path to becoming true climate champions together.
 Thank you very much for coming. So just in response, as the mayor's press release announcing that we were not going to move forward said, he had consulted with me, and I fully support his decision. So I'm sorry that information didn't get out. It wasn't as publicized, what was it, three weeks or so ago? Yeah, right. But Pampano will not be coming to us. Thank you very much. Okay, item 552.
 Request of Shelly Lufkin to address council regarding large cell tower on Southeast 71st Avenue. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. My name is Shelly Lufkin. I live on Southeast 71st Avenue, just yards away from a proposed T-Mobile cell tower placement. I'm here today to speak on behalf of the residents of my Mount Tabor neighborhood, my family, and citizens of Portland who oppose the placement of these towers in residential Category 4 neighborhoods.
 Our neighborhood is in fierce opposition to the placement of this tower. T-Mobile has been deceptive from the start of this ordeal, from the notification of residents in a plain, nondescript letter to the hastily planned industry-led meeting that was a farce in regards to citizen input, as well as the inaccurate renderings of the proposed tower itself. Their strategy has been to deceive, subvert, and limit resident involvement at all costs. Despite this attempt, we have organized and have universal support within our Mount Tabor neighborhood.
 Over 200 neighborhood residents have signed a petition against the tower installation.
 One of our greatest concerns is the potential negative health effects relating to exposure to high levels of electromagnetic radiation. As you're aware, when these installations are placed on buildings, there are health warnings posted, and access to these areas are strictly limited. But apparently T-Mobile and PGE feel it's okay to place a cellular installation next to a child's bedroom window. I'm a cancer survivor and the mother of a childhood cancer survivor who is here with me today.
 In addition, there are 40 young children within a two-block radius. As parents, we make deliberate choices and sacrifices to protect the health of our children. This is not a risk we are willing to take.
 We are not dissuaded by paid industry health experts, nor the bullying by T-Mobile and Odelia Corporation. Mayor Hales, in his campaign for mayor, admitted that this is a public health issue, and I quote, there are several ways for the city to ensure cell towers are not built in neighborhoods that don't want them there. First of all, the fact that the cell tower debate is one about public health. As the next mayor of Portland, I'll continue to advance our rich tradition of neighborhood involvement.
 and fight to ensure that cell towers are not forced upon those neighborhoods that don't want them. To paraphrase Mayor Hales, this is being forced upon us. We live in Portland where we do things differently. We pride ourselves on the livability of our neighborhoods, our environmental consciousness, and our ability to say no when these issues are compromised. Being told by a multinational corporation that this structure will have minimal impact on quality of life is absolutely absurd.
 Putting a 56-foot cell tower with a refrigerator-sized box at street level, generating noise day in and day out, becomes a quality-of-life issue for those that live next to it. Besides the health impact, this degrades a historic neighborhood, impairs treasure views of Mount Hood, and reduces privacy.
 property values. Mayor Hales and Councilmembers, are you willing to take a stand to protect the health of your citizens and the character our neighborhoods like other municipalities are doing? Or will the city continue to be motivated by money received from the telecommunications industry for each cellular installation placed? This issue is not one that is going away anytime soon. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. I hope you are in touch
 You probably already are in touch with my staff, but Dana, one of them is standing over there. Make sure you are so we can be in touch with you as you work on this. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 okay thank you all we're going to move to the regular council calendar now and just want to let everyone know how we operate during the regular council meetings first obviously the public's welcome to attend during the consideration of items on the council calendar there'll be time limited opportunities to speak on those items you can sign up for or just come up for testimony on those items all you have to do is give us your name you don't have to give us your address
 If you're a lobbyist representing an organization, we ask that you disclose that because it's required by city code.
 Please respect the time limits. There's a light and buzzer that you heard sound even during our communications items that signals when people's time is up, and we ask that you respect that so that other citizens have a chance to speak. During regular council meetings, we ask that you not do what we do sometimes more informally in the early part of our calendar, and that is applaud or make any kind of verbal comments.
 support or opposition to our fellow citizens' points of view because we consider controversial issues here and therefore we want everyone to have their say. So if you agree with someone, give them a thumbs up, or if you feel like you want to disagree and give them a thumbs down, feel free to do that, but we ask that people make no vocal demonstrations during council meetings so we can hear from everyone. If you have handouts, please give them to our council clerk and she'll distribute them.
 Obviously, in order to have this kind of thoughtful deliberation in this room, we don't tolerate disruptions. And if someone does disrupt the council meeting, they'll be warned and asked to stop. And if they don't stop, they'll be excluded from the building for some period of time under our city code. Hopefully, we never need to use that sanction because we try to respect each other's points of view.
 Finally, I don't think it's going to be the case this morning, but if the council meeting runs long, we'll take a break at approximately noon and break the calendar at that point, and I'll make an announcement about when that will be if we get to that contingency. But again, I don't think, given the council calendar this morning, that that will be the case. So with that, let's move to item 553. Thank you.
 Sorry, let's do the consent calendar first. And I understand 555 is being pulled to the regular calendar and 563, right? Correct. Any others? Any requests to pull items off the consent calendar? Then let's vote on the consent calendar with those two pulled to regular. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Approved. 553.
 Proclaim June 8 through 14 to be Timbers and Thorns FC Stand Together Week in Portland. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Before I begin, I'd like to invite a few special guests from the Timbers and Thorns family to join us. If you'll please come forward. They are Crystal Whistle, Director of Community Relations for the Timbers and Thorns. Carling Leone, Coordinator of Community Relations for the Timbers and Thorns.
 Jordan Farwell, who is a Timbers and Thorns intern, and everyone's favorite, Timber Joey. He's Sunnyside's favorite. We just established that upstairs. It's my pleasure to welcome you all to City Hall as we celebrate the 2015 Stand Together Week. Each year, more than 1,000 volunteers gather to complete dozens of projects across our community. And on June 8th, we'll kick off this year's Stand Together Week.
 and i'm pleased on behalf of the mayor and the council to read the following proclamation whereas the city of portland is proud to be home to the portland timbers and the thorns fc our professional soccer teams and whereas the timbers and thorns are committed to giving back to our community through our community platform stand together
 And whereas the City of Portland is proud to partner with the Timbers and Thorns in organizing Stand Together Week, a week of community service from June 8th through June 14th, 2015. And whereas over 1,000 Stand Together volunteers, including Timbers, Thorns, and T2 players, the Timbers Army, Rose City Riveters, coaches, ambassadors, front office staff, and community members will come together for a week of service,
 And whereas Stand Together volunteers will participate in over 35 community events and projects throughout Portland, and whereas community service projects will include building homes, tending gardens, restoring local parks, pulling ivy, leading soccer clinics, repairing children's bicycles, and so much more. And whereas Stand Together will support local mission-driven nonprofits including AC Portland, Playworks, the Latino Network,
 Community Cycling Center, Zanger Farm, Willamette Riverkeeper, and the Oregon Food Bank, among many others. And whereas Stand Together Week is a call to action by the city, the Timbers and the Thorns, and our community partners to inspire people to give back through community service.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim June 8th through the 14th of 2015 as Timbers and Thorns FC Stand Together Week in Portland and encourage all residents to recognize and join in this week of service to our community. With that, I'd like to turn it over to Crystal. Thank you.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish. Mr. Mayor and city commissioners, we're really pleased to host Stand Together Week this year. It's the last week of school, and it's a really vital time, so we're very excited to have these types of activities like Playworks.
 we'll be able to participate in activities with recess with some of our players like Adam Kaur say our goalkeeper Diego Valeri a variety of our thorns players t2 players of course timber Joey will be at a large majority of our events that we'll have this week
 And it's just a great way to kick off this summer and focus on getting kids and our local youth to make healthy and inspired decisions throughout the summer. So thank you all so much for this opportunity. We really appreciate it. Thank you. Joey? I'd like to actually welcome you all out to any of the events. You can find it on timbers.com, what events we're going to be at. And anybody who would like to come out and participate, we'd definitely love to have you.
 My son and I were out watching a Thorns game recently, courtesy of Commissioner Fritz, who allowed us to use her tickets. And, boy, they're good seats, too. And one thing that struck me was how many of the Thorns...
 are world-class players who are actually representing their respective countries during the World Cup. How many of the foreign players are actually going to be in Vancouver representing a nation during the World Cup? Eight, I believe. Yeah, I believe we have eight players that will be in Vancouver.
 Well, it reminds me, Mary, because my son, who's passionate about soccer at age 11, he's always making the point when we go that, Dad, the women on the field are some of the best players in the world, and particularly best players on their national teams. Absolutely. And we have a goalie that's best, who was FIFA player of the world. Yeah, for Germany. We have the best Canadian striker, the best U.S. striker, one of the great midfielders. I mean, we have all this talent.
 Hopefully they'll get back soon from the World Cup, by the way. We need them back. Not too soon. We want them to do very well. So we're very fortunate to be blessed with such amazing athletes on both the Timbers and Thorns side. There were 14,000 fans, Amanda, when I went to the game. What's the average attendance around the league for women's professional soccer games? Oh, it's just a couple thousand. And then...
 We were almost at a full stadium for a women's soccer game, professional game, and it's, what, seven times the league average for women.
 which is amazing. It is, and we have, it's a great opportunity to inspire young girls to get involved in the sport and to be independent and stay active. And I noticed some of the sunny side girls up there had their Thorns t-shirts on, which is great. They got some scarves. Yeah, absolutely, and some Timbers jerseys. So we're very thankful for all the support that we receive.
 Well, one of the reasons I think the community loves your teams so much is that you do this community service so goodheartedly and consistently. I mean, you're really out there doing things in the community. Sports teams don't have to do that even to be beloved. But I think you've gone above and beyond in ways that people notice and appreciate, whether it's planting trees or putting a soccer field in or all the other community work that you've been doing, you know, with a lot of volunteers' support as well. Right.
 We just want you to know that that commitment to the community that you've shown is noticed and appreciated by those of us that are trying to make community services work. Thank you so much. I think all of our players are really interested to be involved, and they receive so much from the community on a week-in and week-out basis on the field. And so it's awesome.
 our opportunity as athletes in the front office to be able to give back to our community, which gives so much to us. So thank you. I think we should also acknowledge that they're also bringing bunk sandwiches to Providence Park now. So another community benefit. Yes. Commissioner. I also want to thank the Operation Pitch Invasion and the Timbers Army with the Rose City River Troves
 Director Michael Batze of Parks and I were at Colonel Summers Park on Saturday, unveiling or kicking off the futsal court that's been created there by the Operation Pitch Invasion with Sean Levy and others. It's a great partnership, and I really appreciate the Thorns and Timbers management efforts
 encouraging community participation. As you know, we've been working on a program to try to find employment for the Thorns players in particular during the off-season, and I appreciate your partnership in that. Of course, we're still looking for a sponsor for it, but it's another example of trying to make the women's game viable, as Commissioner Fish said, with such amazing players and such
 such great role models. We need to be able to do that. And that's, it's unusual. I'm wearing my Timbers scarf that's also the PDX carpet scarf in honor of both of the Rose Festival and his being, he or she, being the Grand Marshal of the Starlight Parade.
 That was fantastic. It was an amazing joining together of the corporation and the business with the community volunteers and making it very Portland. And I was watching football in England growing up. None of the supporters clubs in Europe do what the Timbers Army and the Rose City River just do in partnership with the organization. So thank you very much, everybody who's involved.
 Thank you so much. Before we take a photo with these fine people, let's suspend the rules and hear it for the Thorns and the Timbers. Thank you. Thank you. Come on up. I'll do any event at Kendall Johnson. Do you want to park your stick or not? It's Saturday. Any Kendall Johnson event, I'll be there. Thanks again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'd like a lot better than release. Nicely done. All right. Take care, Sunnyside. Have a good summer. All right, let's move on to item 554.
 Create Portland Utility Board to strengthen oversight functions for city water, sewer, and stormwater services. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. What a proud day that we're going to have a chance to present the first reading of legislation which would formally create the Portland Utility Board.
 I have a few introductory remarks, but I'd like to invite the first panel to come forward before I begin. They are Christine Chin Ryan, who was the co-chair of the Blue Ribbon Commission that inspired this legislation, Jim Owens from Cogan Owens Green, who was the facilitator, and Janice Thompson from the Citizens Utility Board. MR. She's here. MR. Please. MR.
 Bob, there's always a seat at the table for you. Welcome, guests, honored guests, and I have some very brief introductory remarks. At a work session held in December of 2014, City Council heard the preliminary recommendations of the Utility Oversight Blue Ribbon Commission.
 Today, I am proudly introducing an ordinance to create the Portland Utility Board, or the PUB, which was the centerpiece of the Blue Ribbon Commission's recommendations. The new PUB would replace the existing Public Utility Review Board, or PERB, for those of you who like acronyms, and the Individual Budget Advisory Committees, or BACs. The PUB would work year-round and report directly to Council.
 It would have a full-time staff from the city budget office, two dedicated professional staff people serving them. And working in conjunction with the outside oversight of the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon, the pub will bring unprecedented transparency to the work and rate-setting process of both the Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. If approved, there will be nine members of the pub.
 and the mayor and I have already begun the process of asking our colleagues to nominate potential members. If any member of the public would like to be considered for joining the pub, information and an application form will be posted on my website this week. And with that, I want to thank our distinguished panel and introduce...
 Christine, Christine Chin Ryan, who served as co-chair and really did a splendid job with co-chair Dwight Holton guiding the Blue Ribbon Commission. Welcome. Thank you. Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Saltzman, Fritz, and Novick, thank you for giving us the opportunity to provide testimonies.
 Unfortunately, Dwight Holden, Chair, is unable to be here today due to business travel. As Vice Chair, he has asked me to present on behalf of the Blue Ribbon Commission. You may recall that the BRC was composed of 11 citizens who met from July through November last year to develop a set of comprehensive utility reform recommendations that we presented to you on December 8th. At that time, you directed Commissioner Fishh,
 to develop the implementing ordinances necessary to put into effect these, those recommendations. I am here today on behalf of the BRC to report to you that the ordinance in front of you reflects the intent of the BRC's recommendations for streamlining and strengthening the oversight of the Portland Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. There are four fundamental elements in our recommendation that I think are important to highlight.
 First, the new oversight utility, the Portland Utility Board, replaces the PERB, as Commissioner Fishett says, and two BACs for the bureaus. Our December presentation to you included detailed rationale for this change, which I will not repeat here. What I do want to emphasize, however, is that we believe that this new entity is the best approach to provide stronger and more consistent oversight without creating new bureaucracy.
 Second, the pub is assigned its own full-time dedicated senior level staff. This is critical to ensuring that this new body has the resources to be able to successfully do its job. Third, the pub is given the opportunity to be involved year-round in utility bureau visioning, such as mission and system plans, and budget planning, such as CIP rates, annual budgets.
 This is essential to true oversight in the budget and rate setting processes. Fourth, this new program is monitored on a regular basis based on specific measures of success. This needs to be a thorough but realistic analysis of the oversight program that is broadly shared with the public.
 The proposals that you are considering today are significant and probably groundbreaking. They will accomplish much to improve the oversight of your utility bureaus and to increase public confidence and their management. They create a high-profile, independent oversight body to help ensure accessibility, transparency, public participation in the decision processes for water and wastewater utility rates and budget.
 They provide the oversight body with independent, dedicated technical staff that can provide independent analysis of and monitoring of Bureau and City Council actions. They officially integrate the oversight entity into the CIP and budget development as recommendations are made at the Bureau Commissioner level and into deliberations by the Mayor and City Council.
 They provide an additional outside independent perspective on how to best meet the city's utility needs. I want to close by acknowledging the efforts and commitment by my fellow BRC members, our facilitator, and city staff. We and you have been well served by this process and those efforts. Thank you. Christine, thank you. And on behalf of the mayor and me,
 I want to thank you and the entire Blue Ribbon Commission. In my seven years on the council, I do not think that a citizen body has performed more ably when given such a complex charge and such a challenging timeline.
 But the work that you've done is important and thoughtful, and I agree with you. I believe we have the opportunity to have significant and groundbreaking change, and it flows directly from the work of the BRC, and you have our gratitude. Thank you. Who's next? Jim? Jim?
 Good morning Mr. Mayor, Council Members. I'm Jim Owens, Principal in Kogan Owens Green, and I have the honor to be the facilitator for the Blue Ribbon Commission. I'm going to be very brief. First off, I want to note that we're providing a unique welcome to the new BES Director, Michael Jordan. It's not often that one is given a pub upon taking a position with the City. I also want to express my appreciation to the Bureau representatives and the Commissioners and Mayor's staff.
 While challenging, the Blue Ribbon Commission process was extremely informative and transparent. We were accorded the independence and support in our deliberations that we were promised, and it was a pleasure to work with members of the Blue Ribbon Commission. A great group, and another example that citizens are the riches of the city. Two points to make. First, the ordinance before you today, as Christine indicated earlier,
 accurately reflects the recommendations we presented to you, and is true to the process we employed to develop those recommendations. Second, the true challenge starts now. The success of this new entity rests with the appointment of committed and knowledgeable community members who can nurture these concepts from infancy to adulthood. Luckily, we have a wealth of qualified citizens to choose from who are up to the task
 On behalf of the BRC, we hope that you, the City Council, choose wisely in making those appointments. And I'm going to apologize. I have to run out and catch a flight this morning. So thank you for the honor. Thank you, Jim. Jim, thanks for all your great work facilitating and then helping with the handoff of the recommendations to the council. You've done great work. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you.
 Janice Thompson from CUB. Yeah, Janice Thompson, Citizens Utility Board of Oregon. So CUB does support passage of this ordinance. I was invited and was pleased to participate on the Utility Oversight Blue Ribbon Commission, and one of the things I did was...
 to highlight kind of a three-pronged approach. In that context, I kind of was using a triangle a lot. I'll use the three-legged stool analogy today. So the first recommendation is the...
 the topic before you today, the establishment of the pub. And so that is strengthening and streamlining kind of the internal oversight leg of an effective utility oversight stool, if you will. And it's akin to the other bureaus and their citizen advisory groups, but it's stronger. Christine highlighted several points.
 One that I think bears repeat is the dedicated staff. But I also want to highlight that there had been kind of over time kind of evolved
 an accommodation of like how the back process fit or didn't fit with the perp but it was I think it's fair to say that My digging around that the back process just never really quite fit as well for the utility bureaus as other bureaus because so much of their budget is capital improvement and so asking a short-term group to come in and
 with budgets that were in large part kind of established, meant that they were more focused on advising kind of around the edges. And there were several comments in the record for the BRC from back members highlighting that. And then how exactly the backs fit or didn't fit with the PIRB.
 It just doesn't seem like it was really thought much about back in 2005 when the current back process kind of got underway. And like I say, I think people figured out kind of how to do it, but it was not in a kind of planful way or not in an advanced – it was planful. There wasn't a lot of advanced thinking. Let's put it that way. Okay.
 I think it's fair to say that this is a clear and kind of more streamlined solution to kind of this historic who's doing what kind of dynamic between the per and the back. The importance of clearly giving the public responsibility related to oversight on the capital improvement projects is very important.
 CUB will be monitoring the scope issue and want to highlight some language from the BRC report regarding the need for the oversight to embrace innovative solutions as well. Two other BRC recommendations represent the second and third leg of the stool, and I just want to touch on those. The second leg is the city council, which needs to really embrace the pub and
 in timing and other process decisions that aren't appropriate to be spelled out in the ordinance needs to really carry through and make sure the ordinance is not just stale words and the exchange between the pub and the city council doesn't just decline into pro forma exchanges. And then the third recommendation did come,
 relate to the Cub and Cub continuing as the third leg of the stool and in that context we'll be monitoring continue to monitor the City Council and its oversight of the Bureau's and
 and we're going to monitor and advise the pub's oversight recommendation. The ordinance clearly spells out that CUB does not replace the pub and vice versa. Though I was invited to participate on the Blue Ribbon Commission, and that seemed appropriate given its ad hoc nature, kind of developing this evolving new utility oversight scheme,
 I've been asked, you know, nobody from Cub will be on the pub. I mean, that would lose our three-legged stool element. And...
 I think we do anticipate a very collaborative, coordinated working relationship with the pub, but I would anticipate that there could be times where the cub views are different and would see our role as bringing that to your attention as well. A final note is that the pub will have a learning curve. I think the BRC did demonstrate that –
 People can get up to speed and move fast. And nevertheless, CUB is very committed to assist the pub to ensure its effectiveness.
 Thank you very much for your collaborative relationship in drafting the ordinance. The last point you made is reflected in the therefores section 2 sub B which does note that while there is a goal of striving towards collaboration and coordination between the pub and the cub.
 They are both independent sources of utility analysis and oversight and will remain independent of each other. Right. So it really establishes, you know, this whole three-pronged, three legs of the stool, with Cub in the Pub being two legs and City Council being the third leg. And also thank you in your first full year of providing oversight during our budget process. Thank you for your very...
 effective advocacy that ended up resulting in a further rate reduction based on going to full cost recovery on one of our systems development charges. So we appreciate your good work. Mr. Wise. Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fish, Commissioners, it's a pleasure to be here. I just want to say one thing. One is how hardworking this particular citizens group was, many, many meetings, and how transparent it was.
 Our Chair, Dwight Holton, obviously couldn't be here, but...
 uh... i have to say uh... for him observing him how open he was to citizen input process and how amazing that was to me to see constantly stopping what we're doing so we can actually hear people and listen to them in terms of the process itself second point i would make real quickly is how important this is because i don't know if anything it's a more important strategic asset for
 the city of Portland and the water and sewer system taken together, particularly given what you just discussed, climate change, the significance of our water system to the region and to our people. This is a great step, I believe, to making sure that's managed as best as possible, given the forces are going to be at work on the region in the future. So thank you for the opportunity.
 to participate in this hearing. Thank you. Thank you, Bob. Thanks very much. So, Mayor, we have some folks who have signed up to testify. If I might suggest, by way of just managing the process, Commissioner Fritz has proposed some amendments which we consider friendly amendments, and I think it might be good to put those on the table now, and then we'll invite up further questions.
 testifiers. And Commissioner Fritz, you want to walk through your amendments? Thank you, Commissioner Fish, and thank you very much to the Blue Ribbon Commission and to everybody who's participated in this process, particularly to Commissioner Fish for leading it and for being so willing to completely revamp how we do public process and oversight for the utilities.
 So my amendments that Commissioner Fish and I discussed and he supports simply clarify some of the intent under 3.123.0.
 3-0 membership it currently states the board shall have nine permanent members board members shall be appointed by the mayor in Consultation with the commissioners in charge of the bureaus and confirmed by the council My amendment proposes any council member may submit nominations to the commissioners in charge and then the remainder of the paragraph is the same. I
 Do you want me to just go through all of them? Why don't you go through the second one, too? I intend to second them as a friendly package. And the rationale for this is that currently all city council members are entitled to submit nominations for the perib. I personally, despite not having any of the utilities ever, got three members of the perib appointed, and it makes the whole council responsible for recruitment, which is important for such a powerful board. Thank you.
 Also, there's a further reference in 040 to the mayor and council, which means assigns all council members responsibility for the composition of the utility board. The second amendment is under 3.123.040, appointments and compositions.
 And I want to, it currently says, in making board appointments, the mayor and council shall strive to have a board which reflects the diversity of the Portland community. I use language from current public involvement advisory committees.
 binding policy to specify what that diversity means. And so I'm proposing to add, including but not limited to the following factors, area of expertise, advocacy experience, community involvement, profession, education, and or economic status.
 There's also obviously a list later in this paragraph about what kind of skills. And so I'm proposing a couple amendments to that sentence. It currently says skills that will serve the new board well include, I'm proposing to strike the word new because it won't be new very long.
 And then it says technical knowledge of water, stormwater, sewer utility operations and issues, accounting, civil engineering, conservation, environmental sciences, and then a host of other things. I'm proposing to add equity into that list to make sure that we remember that the skill of equity, of understanding and paying attention to equity is definitely something that we want on the board.
 Okay. So Commissioner Fritz has moved those amendments. I'm going to second the Mayor. In discussing these amendments with Commissioner Fritz, and as the sponsor of the legislation, I consider them all friendly amendments which either strengthen the existing language or make explicit what we believe was implicit. And so I'm pleased to support her amendments. Okay. Sorry.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I also want to mention for public testimony that I do have an additional concern about the makeup of the board and particularly the involvement both of employees and of community members. I want to make sure that it's clear that the board will take public testimony at its meetings and that they –
 when they're functioning as a budget advisory committee that the appropriate folks are at the table commissioner fish and i will be having some conversations about that before the next reading and with there may be some further amendments so before we take a vote on accepting those amendments i have a city attorney who's waving
 Just to clarify for the record, and I have confirmed with staff, because of the way the second one was drafted, it wasn't entirely clear that some of the sentences that were in between the amendments remained. And I just want to clarify that the only changes to this are those changes that are seen here. Everything in A that remains stays the same, and B is not amended as well. Okay.
 Correct. Okay. So we'll take a council vote to accept those amendments and take public testimony on both the original ordinance as it was proposed and those amendments. So roll call on accepting the amendments. Fish? Commissioner Fritz, thank you for these very thoughtful suggestions and amendments. I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Thank you. Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Okay.
 So now let's turn to testimony, and you have some folks signed up, Carla? Yes, we have four people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Winston Michael Ray, Mike Houck, and Floyd Jones. Okay.
 Again, I want to make sure everyone understands that this needs to be on this topic, okay? Just on this topic of the pub. Absolutely. This is just my traditional dress. Okay. Whatever you want to wear, but this subject. Ms. Jones, go ahead. I've seen a lot of this during my campaign. Boy, go ahead, please. You want me to go first? Sure, go ahead. Okay.
 Floyd Jones, I'm with Friends of the Reservoirs, an all-volunteer grassroots group. And of all the people testifying today and who actually participated in this Blue Ribbon Committee, I represent the only organization that's been consistently providing oversight, independent oversight, to the Water Bureau for the last year.
 12 years, we're facing another 7% rate increase, which for middle class rate payers is a struggle on top of the high rate increases we've already seen.
 And, you know, I'm sorry to say that I agree with comments that Commissioner Salzman made early on. I really see no provisions in this that's going to make this commission any different than what exists today. There's nothing in there that requires an annual independent line item budget, oversight of the budget. You know, for all these years, the Water Bureau has refused to entertain any suggestions that make the budget smaller, only that expand the budget. You can throw out a million suggestions for expanding and growing,
 And our Water Bureau has grown 40% since I first started seriously monitoring the budget in 2004. There are now close to 70 employees that make close to $100,000. Well, water demand has declined since 1988, so why would we expand? Right.
 I also wanted to comment relating to this. The discovery that you've given CUB praise for, well, of course, council has known about that. It's in our lawsuit. It's been in the lawsuit since 2011, making rate payers pay for system development costs for developers. So that's hardly a CUB thing.
 discovery and it should have been addressed last year. Dwight Holden did a great job for the mission that he was given but you really need to strengthen this if it's going to be any different and it needs to most certainly be made public well in advance when these meetings occur and more than just two minutes of comment at the end. People who have been participating and interested in our water system and our
 sewer and storm water system need to be able to participate.
 The focus really shouldn't be, I've heard these words being used during the budget discussions, that the focus needs to be on education, which I view as really code for propagandizing the need for further increases. That really doesn't need to be the focus. It really needs to be true oversight, true independent oversight.
 Thank you. Thank you. Morning. First, my obedience to Almighty God, I want to address this body on this topic here. Give us your name, too. Yeah, Winston Michael Ray is my name. And, yeah, I'm looking over this. And I'm a newcomer to your city. Thank you.
 As you can see, we met, I think, a few days after I arrived here on what it was, the 16th of May. Mr. Mayor, oversight. Yes, we do. We do need to create a stronger utility board oversight to strengthen for the city waters and sewer services. Thank you.
 I think is necessary, and like I said, I want to be here for the time I'm supposed to be here to address that more aggressively. But, you know, I look at oversight in many areas, and there's other oversights that boards that need to be put together to strengthen, well, should I say,
 Review new measures to help the city. And I think the city of Portland should create a board through your office in homelessness. And I'm sure, as you stated last time, you're doing all you can to do that. But, you know, as I stated several times, and I just saw you earlier today, that this is a serious problem. And I think it all somehow interrelates with each other, with the utility board and
 and other departments but on a closing i don't have much time here i just want to just take this time uh and i won't even do much talking i think a picture is worth a thousand words and i know we said we wasn't going to discuss that but this is all connected and i just simply want to invite all of the citizens of portland oregon to stand with us under the burnside bridge on june 6 at three o'clock to
 address this issue of homelessness. It has something to do with water because we're under the bridge. Also, I must say in my closing statement, because this will literally be my last time I speak because June 6th is just three days away, I've been in contact with the British government. I just, one statement says it all. The revelation of Winston Smith and George Orwell's 1984 novel, we all read it, we went to college, I went to LSU,
 It's me. And I pass that on to the British government and in contact with Ambassador Pete Westmacott, U.S. Ambassador of Britain to the United States, and George Orwell's stepson, Richard Blair. So, yeah, just stand with me. Mr. Mayor, I have to ask you one final time. Will you, as mayor and Mr. Novak, President of the City Council and Commissioner Fritz and others,
 salesmen and fish respectively. Will you all stand with me and the citizens of Portland on June 6th at 3 o'clock to launch a $100 billion marketing campaign that's going to get us out of this sewage mess? Thank you for coming. That's not an answer, Mr. Hale. No, that's not, but it's Rose Festival weekend. So thanks for coming today. Isn't this the prettiest thing you've ever seen? It is. Thanks. Mr. Hale, welcome. Mayor Hale's commissioners, I'm here today representing the Urban Green Spaces Institute to support adoption of the ordinance.
 I would like to start out by repeating what I've said numerous times before, and if I never hear the Bureau of Environmental Services referred to as a sewer bureau, again, it will be too soon. The Bureau, as we know, has a much broader mission, thankfully, that relates to broader environmental issues in the city of Portland. And I bring this up, again, because it's critical that these initiatives represent communities
 of individuals who point to the pub. My specific comments on the ordinance include, first of all, I'm pleased to see you start out by saying you have a very dedicated and professional staff. I think both the bureaus got bashed unreasonably by proponents of the initiative that was put forward. With regard to specific language, I don't actually anticipate you'll add this language, but I would hope you would keep it in mind at least.
 by adding, for example, in point seven, implementing city commitments and policies beyond federal and state mandates, implementing city commitments and policies to protect and improve watershed and ecosystem health of the city, respond to climate change through mitigation and adaptation. I think those need to be included in the list of things that you're looking for with regard to representation.
 And, again, I refer on Exhibit A for the creative purpose, add watershed services, city policies relating to improving watershed health, ecosystem health throughout the city.
 Regarding the appointments composition, I'm pleased to see you'll be seeking individuals with expertise in watershed health issues, conservation, green infrastructure, and the environment. To the BRC, I recommended, and I actually think CUB referred to this, adding innovation in there. I'm really concerned that the lawsuit and the initiative and the ensuing political mayhem that occurred during that period of time –
 which the citizens of Portland soundly rejected, by the way, because they do understand the value of both of those bureaus to the city.
 that there has been a chilling effect. And again, I'm speaking primarily about BS. I don't know that much intimately about the Water Bureau. But I think there's been a definite chilling effect, and there's been a tendency to try to keep below the radar, try to hunker down, and avoid any political ramifications for actually being innovative. The city of Portland now is recognized by EPA as one of the most innovative cities
 environmental service bureaus in the nation, and I think we need to keep on that track. I'm also pleased that language advises the mayor and council to appoint a pub that includes individuals with experience in conservation. One of the concerns I have is there has seemed to be a tendency to actually –
 exclude people who have the depth of expertise with regard to budgeting and with regard to the inner workings of the bureaus. And I think you need to think very carefully about how you appoint. I've got a particular individual on mine you won't be surprised to hear, and I'm sure they're applying, who really do understand the budget process and how the bureaus work. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mike, just one comment. First of all, thank you for your thoughtful written testimony, and thank you for your advocacy both before the BRC and then subsequently and later.
 In 3.123.040 of the accompanying regs, we do specifically call out green infrastructure, environment,
 ecosystem science, environmental protection, and this is intentional. We're not saying this, we're just not adding this to a list. We are saying that we want people with this specific experience, life experience, value-based experience, that can help us be successful. And so it's
 It's not exactly some of the language you've proposed in your letter, but it is embedded in the selection process and criteria. And that reflects testimony that the BRC heard that we need to continue to have that focus, particularly at the Bureau of Environmental Services. Yeah, and I appreciate that. Actually, I referenced those in my written testimony. I just didn't have time in three minutes. But I appreciate the fact that BRC did follow through, as did you, Commissioner Fish.
 I guess I find these to be welcome amendments, and I'm just wondering whether the sponsor would have any objection to Adding the how come in months this language. It's up to you. I'd be great if you wanted It's good to mention watershed health throughout the ordinance And I think you've done a very good job here of artfully inserting them in appropriate places we I
 Because Commissioner Fritz has raised a question of public process and also a related issue, it is highly unlikely that we'll actually take the final vote next week. It may very well come back in two weeks.
 What I would suggest, Dan, is rather than do it on the fly, because every single word of this ordinance and the regs has been crafted collaboratively with all the stakeholders, if there's a specific amendment you want to offer, I would think we could craft it and bring it back to council. I'd be loathe to do it on the fly. I was going to ask. Well, yeah, if you would, as a sponsor, if you would take the language suggested by Mr. Hauken.
 perhaps incorporated in the revised version. I'd be happy to work on that as well. I would really appreciate that, frankly, because I think we need to be more explicit. And this is a very important document. And I shared that concern. I was looking at the word stormwater and thinking, well, that does encompass a number of other things. But I agree with you that it would be better to state up front that it is the Bureau of Environmental Services and that includes a lot more than just stormwater. Just to be clear, I commit as the
 as the author and sponsor to work with dan and amanda to to come up with language and and we'll bring that back next week great that sounds good we did capture that as you just pointed out in the appointments piece more more broadly than we did elsewhere in the yeah my reason for submitting those potential amendments
 was in the other language that related to the mission of the Bureau. That continues to be a very significant issue in terms of how we communicate to the public and others what the Bureau's BES's mission actually is. And just to be clear, I thought a number of your suggestions and your testimony that I read this morning were very thoughtful.
 having spent a lot of time drafting this and making sure that it all is fully integrated and not get in trouble with the city attorney's office, I just want to have the opportunity to do it the right way. Sure. Thanks. Thanks for raising those issues. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Okay. We have one more. We have Carol Cushman. I'd just like to ask you a question. No, not now. No, we don't do that. Thank you for coming. Not now. Thank you. That's all, folks. The President.
 Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. I'll get myself around here. Good morning. I am Carol Cushman, and I'm representing the League of Women Voters of Portland this morning. The League supports creation of the proposed utilities, public utilities board. Thank you.
 As an organization that values transparency and public involvement, we believe the elimination of PERB and the two budget advisory committees will streamline budget oversight and provide the public with a single entry point through which it can learn about and become involved in the work of the complex bureaus that manage our water and environmental services.
 The League was an active participant in the campaign to defeat Measure 26-156, attended a number of the Blue Ribbon Commission meetings, and commented on the Commission's draft reports. In our view, implementation of its key recommendations will strengthen the oversight process and improve public trust.
 Broadening the scope of the pub to include the full range of the Bureau's activities, capital improvement projects, policies, finances, and budgets will ensure that the Board's recommendations are based on a full understanding of Bureau functions and costs of implementation.
 Furthermore, having dedicated staff from the Budget Office with expertise in utilities will make the pub more effective than the current advisory bodies by ensuring that its recommendations are supported by reliable information. We fully support the proposed practices that provide meaningful opportunities for the pub to participate in and influence the city's budget process. The League recommended...
 convening the Blue Ribbon Commission in several years to evaluate implementation. We're pleased to see that the resolution calls for an independent review or audit in a few years to assess the board's effectiveness. Furthermore, CUB's continued involvement will provide an independent voice and play a critical role in ensuring effective implementation of this new approach to oversight.
 Finally, a little add to what I had there. Thank you for the previous conversation we just listened to where you are considering an additional amendment to this proposal because we are concerned that there's no mention in the resolution of the importance of protecting and enhancing our environment or promoting innovation, risk-taking, and piloting new approaches by the city's utility bureaus.
 Over the years, Portland has been a leader in this regard, and the city should continue to build on its past successes. The League appreciates the Blue Ribbon Commission's work on this challenging issue and its willingness and openness in accepting the public's suggestions during their process.
 We're pleased to offer our support along with our recommendation that the innovation and environmental protections must continue to be a priority. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else?
 Okay, so this is can I am just Can I just walk through what I think what I understand will be the next steps Yeah, let's talk about next steps and it comes back at some point. So mayor it's my understanding that the council as a body embraces this cub of this pub concept so we will begin the process of recruiting members that will start this week and
 There are a number of possible amendments which have been flagged today. I will work with my colleagues to see if we can bring those amendments back next week. If they are consensus amendments, then I will ask that they be adopted immediately.
 take testimony, and then perhaps place an emergency clause so that we can move this thing forward. Or if it's the sense of the council, we'll hear any new amendments next week and just have the vote the following week, which is regular order. Either way, I'll work with Dan and Amanda on the issues which have been flagged, and we will bring back further amendments next week and either have final vote or a second reading the following week.
 Because it's going to get a little broken up here, I want to, at least today, thank a few people. Mayor, I want to thank you for your full support throughout this process, in particular Jackie Dingfelder, who has done great work on your staff. I want to thank the entire membership of the Blue Ribbon Commission.
 for their extraordinary service. I want to thank Ben Walters and the city attorney's office. This is drafting these things is more complicated, I think, than people realize. And they've given us great guidance throughout. I want to thank Jim Blackwood on my staff, who has been working on this for a very long time.
 the Citizens Utility Board, and all the community stakeholders that have weighed in throughout the process of drafting this ordinance and the rules. I think by next week it will even be stronger, and we'll come back with some amendments and either take a vote next week or the following week. But we will begin the process of...
 soliciting names for membership. And so if people listening today are interested, they'll be able to get information from my website, and we'd be delighted to entertain your candidacy. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your good work on this. There are no other council comments, and we'll continue this item. I think that would be the right. Oh, no. I think we just. Continue it or just set it for second reading next week? We're scheduled for a second reading. Okay. Let's keep it.
 And we can always set it over next week. COMMISSIONER MAYESENIER- We can amend it then if we need to. OK, so we'll schedule it for second reading next week and amend if we so choose. Thank you. OK, let's move on to the, anyone want to do the polled items first? Let's do the polled items first. Item 555.
 Proclaim Sunday, June 7, 2015, to be Community Music Center Day in Portland and encourage all citizens to recognize and support Community Music Center for its important work and contributions to Portland arts and culture. Commissioner Gritz. Interesting error to put a proclamation on consent. I'm not sure how that happened. Yeah. Well, we're just drawing attention to it by pulling it. Okay.
 and getting it up earlier in the agenda since I'm the last to vote and hence the last to be scheduled. So may I read the proclamation? Please. Whereas the City of Portland encourages and supports public-private partnership programs that offer arts education at affordable cost, and whereas it is the mission of Portland Parks and Recreation to provide and coordinate recreation services and programs that contribute to the health and well-being of residents of all ages and abilities, especially youth,
 And whereas in 1955, under the leadership of Portland Parks and Recreation Director Dorothea Lynch and Program Director Robert Crowley, music classes began at Knott Street Community Center, now called Matt Dishman Community Center.
 And whereas Community Music Center Inc., a nonprofit organization formed in 1960, provides needs-based scholarships, low-cost instrument rentals, music library, and supplements the city's general fund now by over $100,000 per year, allowing affordable access to high-quality music education for hundreds of students.
 And whereas the City Nonprofit Partnership at Community Music Center now serves almost a thousand youth and adult participants each week in music classes and activities, and hosts over 4,500 attendees at more than 150 diverse, free, and low-cost musical performances each year,
 and whereas the Community Music Center has commissioned a book to be written about the history of the Community Music Center, due to be released on June 7, 2015, and whereas the students, instructors, alumni, and volunteers of the Community Music Center celebrate the 60th anniversary with a performance festival and community event at Reed College on June 7, 2015,
 Therefore, be it resolved that Charlie Hales, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, does hereby proclaim Sunday, June 7, 2015, to be Community Music Center Day in Portland, and we encourage all citizens to recognize and support the Community Music Center for its important work and contributions to Portland's arts and culture.
 Do we have anybody from the community center? Please come up and introduce yourselves and tell us a little bit. She's being shy. Good morning. Good morning. Commissioner Fritz and the City Council, great to be here, and thank you for your time to spotlight our big festival this Sunday. Also present here today is the Secretary for our nonprofit board, CMC, Inc.,
 My name is Gregory Dubay. I'm the director of the Community Music Center, Portland Parks and Recreation employee, so supervisor of the program at CMC. And I do want to also add to your spotlight of our event on Sunday that we have...
 an unusual event we call the Galactic Twinkle, where we're inviting everyone in the community who plays a portable instrument to come and join us in a huge performance of Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star, which is an educationally significant piece of music, and everyone knows it, of course, from nursery songs. And interestingly enough, that'll be led by...
 Multnomah County Commissioner Jules Bailey, who is a CMC alum and closet violinist. So we'll have great fun with that. But it's a great community event all day from 1 to 7 p.m. at Reed College. Too big to host at our little community center on Francis Street, so we moved to Reed College in their wonderful performing arts building there.
 That's great. We appreciate you and the center so much. I'm often in conversations with mayors in other cities, and we all like to brag about our city, but there are a couple things about Portland's park system that are really pretty unique. One is the simple breadth of it, that we have all these neighborhood parks across the city, not just the big signature park and a few neighborhood parks here and there, but we've got over 200, and that's –
 That's not normal in American cities. Not that many cities were as well-planned as the Olmstead plan did for us. And then secondly, that we have this amazing set of relationships with nonprofits. And over 100, I think, partnerships one way or another with nonprofits, whether it's gardens or music or trees or – and that's –
 Again much more robust than others and then the third and something I've always believed about the park system Is that our park system has really big shoulders no matter what you want to do, you know recreationally We try to accommodate it in the system And so the fact that we have everything from you know bocce ball to baseball to swimming to music in the system I think is just another really remarkable thing about our park system. So the 60 years of music and
 as an important recreational amenity for our citizens, is part of the health that the park system creates in the community. And it's just not normal in American cities that they're as strong as we are. But we appreciate you as a nonprofit. And for all of us who love music, it's one more way that we feed that love of music in the city. Thank you. Thanks so much. Thanks for being here. Enjoy the twinkle. Oh, here, Amanda, take a picture, please. Missionary.
 From what I see of the weather forecast, I think it's going to be a very warm galactic twinkle. So stay hydrated before you start playing your instrument. Okay, let's move on to the other polled item. That's a resolution. We should take a vote. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought it was a proclamation. It's a resolution. Yes, roll call. On the resolution. Congratulations to the Community Music Center. Aye. Aye.
 Novi. Aye. Fritz. Thanks very much to everybody for your work on this. Aye. Hales. Bravo. Aye. Okay. Thank you very much. Now let's move on to the other poll item.
 563, authorized joint application with the Port of Portland to the U.S. Department of Transportation for a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery 7 discretionary grant in the amount of $11,033,000 for the Portland Marine Terminal Freight and Jobs Access Project. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, this application is to get the funds in order to complete a project that's very important to a number of our biggest employers in South River Gate that have over 2,400 jobs, many of them good middle-wage jobs, including Everest Steel, Campotex, Columbia Grain, etc.,
 There's growing conflict between rail traffic and truck freight traffic in South Rivergate. In more and more instances, the trucks have to wait for trains to go by because there's increasing unit train activity. And this is very disruptive to the activities of these businesses. So we're trying to get the money to build an above-grade crossing, in addition to improving a roadway and providing multimodal access to South Rivergate.
 So, we're partnering with the Port of Portland to make this Tiger Grant application. We would put up some SDC money as match. And again, this is a growing problem for these businesses and it's a really important project that we really hope we can get the federal money for. And it's an emergency ordinance because the applications are actually due no later than June 4th.
 It's a rather urgent emergency as it happens. Commissioner Novick, when you and I were in Rivergate recently and we saw the trucks backed up and we saw the train that was blocking the road and they described having something that allowed you to go over, is that the location we're talking about? Bob, that is the location, right? Yes, exactly.
 yeah this project's been planned for quite a while and has great regional support it's it's a good it's a good project so i'm glad that it's uh that we're applying other council questions anyone want to speak on this item mr lightning pulled it good morning my name is lightning i represent watchdog x the only concern i have on this is that on the ordinance it says that you could go as low as 20 percent on a match and i noticed that you went 26
 Now, depending what numbers you're using, your original project cost was $19,253,000. But my understanding also, you received a grant about a year ago for $3,220,000. So that would leave a remaining balance on the project of $16,033,000. Now, where I have a problem here is I think you used the 26% off the $19,000,000, which was the original project cost. Right.
 but it wasn't backed out on the grant that was given about a year ago. Now, maybe my numbers are incorrect, but my calculations show that you were using the $19 million and not taking off the $3 million for an original grant already given. And when I'm talking that percentage of a 26% to a 20%,
 If we're using the original $19 million on the project cost, that comes up to about a $1,155,180 difference. So that is a big number there when we're talking transportation to try to get as much funding as we can on this project. And then again, if we go down to the other number and we back it out to $3,220,000, we're talking a difference of about $961,980.
 Again, maybe I'm reading this incorrectly, but I'm not quite sure on where you took the 26% off on this grant. So that's what I pulled this for.
 Mr. Lightning, it's a requirement that at least 20% of project costs must be provided from non-federal funds. I'd be happy to bring Bob Hillier up to explain the reasoning for the specific proposal that we have here. Okay, thank you. The previous grant, if I remember, may have been for design, but I don't know if that's correct or not, Bob. Okay.
 Bob Blair, Portland Bureau of Transportation. Push the button on the base of that mic there. There you go. Okay, Bob Blair, City of Portland Bureau of Transportation. You're saying there's a minimum grant requirement match of 20%. Again, this is a very competitive grant process for competing with the rest of the nation basically. So to be more competitive, because this is the third time we've tried for this Tiger Grant for this project.
 We wanted to put in a little bit more to show more commitment on part of the region for this. So that's the rationale for that. Yeah, okay. All right. Makes sense. Thank you. If I might ask real fast, where did you use the 26% off of? Was that the overall project cost less the –
 already grant that was received for the $3,220,000. What was that for? The $3.2 million grant, we got that about two years ago. That was federal funds. We cannot use that for match. So we used, again, the port put the numbers together, and I believe it's for the total $19 million. Okay, very good. You've answered my questions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Okay, anyone else want to speak? Further council discussion, then we'll take a roll call on the emergency ordinance.
 Thank you, Steve, and good luck this time. Novick. Let's cross our fingers. Aye. Fritz. I was at the gathering in North Portland yesterday, and Sharon Nasset brought up this very challenge and reported that we've lost a major employer who was planning to relocate to the area and didn't after they got stuck at the intersection for too long after viewing the site. So this is obviously huge, and it's good to be doing something which is going to benefit the port and our businesses more.
 Freight is very important.
 Yeah, this is a great project. Hopefully the third time will be the charm. In my previous consulting career, I did get the chance to go watch Mayor Ralph Becker cut the ribbon on a project that succeeded on its third attempt. So don't give up hope. Maybe with a little more match this time and showing that we're serious and that it's well supported by the whole region that the federal government will finally smile on this good idea. Good luck. Aye. Thank you, Mayor and Council.
 Okay, let's move on to 565. Apply to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $9,625 for the fiscal year 15 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Body Armor Safety Initiative for Bulletproof Vests. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Elizabeth Gardner. I'm a fiscal analyst with the Board of...
 Portland Police Bureau. I just wanted to give a little bit more information about this
 Program. So as the impact statement says, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership was created by the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998, and this is a Department of Justice initiative designed to provide critical resources to state and local law enforcement for these vests. Since 1999, over 13,000 jurisdictions nationwide have participated in the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program, with $393 million in federal funds committed to supporting the purchase of over 1 million vests.
 Since 2005, which is as far back as I have information for, the City of Portland has received about $143,000 for the purchase of about 10% of our replacement vests. So this grant request for $9,625 would go towards the purchase of 25 of our standard issue vests, and the match would be coming from the Police Bureau's general fund appropriation.
 okay thank you any other questions i have a question as to what is that threat level 3a bullet from the vest how is that different from a threat level something else uh it's the level of ballistics that the vest is able to take before it's um punctured but this is the standard this is our standard issue vest yes thank you very much appreciate it anyone want to speak on this item uh then it is a emergency ordinance we will take a roll call
 Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay, 566? Accept bid of Titan Utilities LLC for the Southeast Division Place and Southeast 6th Avenue sewer rehabilitation for $868,490. Ms. Moody? Christine Moody, Procurement Services. Yes.
 This project will replace an upsized 280 feet of combined sewer pipe on Southeast Division Place that is 95 years old and deteriorating. We have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Titan Utilities. The engineer's estimate on this project was $750,000. On April 9, 2015, three bids were received, and Titan Utilities is the low bidder at $868,490.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services has reviewed the bid from Titan and accepts the proposed pricing at 16% over the original engineer's estimate. There are unique aspects of this work that factored into the pricing, which include the overall limited work hours for the open trench work. With shorter construction shifts and more iterations of mobilization in and out of the work site, the additional costs were determined to be appropriate.
 The City identified six divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. Titan Utilities is a certified firm, so participation on this project is at 100% as they are using all certified subcontractors as well. I'll turn this back over to Council if you have any questions. Christine, I have a question.
 We sometimes get these procurement reports and we're below the project construction estimate, sometimes above. In the last year or two, we've seen prices come up a little bit because the market has gotten so much hotter. And so once upon a time during the recession –
 companies bidding on these kinds of jobs were grateful for the work. Now, obviously, there are a lot of cranes in the air, and it's driving up costs. Any lessons, any unique lessons that you take from the fact that we're over the original cost construction estimate on this one?
 Well, Commissioner, that's one reason we're having the bureaus do a more thorough evaluation of the bids and being able to make sure that the pricing that was put forward was accurate.
 Correct. In this instance, what they reviewed is that when they put the engineer's estimate together, they hadn't allowed for the work shifts. And so there's costs associated with that because there's a tighter timeline on that. So it's not so much the economic conditions, but that we didn't have all of that information into the original estimate. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you.
 May I move the report? Oh, excuse me. There's testing. Anyone want to speak before we take a motion? Commissioner Fish moves the report. Is there a second? Second. Roll call, please. Fish. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. 567.
 Delegate authority to the Bureau of Human Resources Director to designate certain training and development programs as mandatory for employees, managers, and supervisors in support of the City Training and Development Program. Thank you.
 You're from the Bureau of Human Resources Director as to why she should have all this authority. That's right, yes. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. Hour grab. Anna Canowit, Director of the Bureau of Human Resources. And with me is Gail Baird, who's the Manager of the City's Training and Workforce Development Program.
 So just a little background on the ordinance. We have from time to time designated certain employee trainings as mandatory based on requests primarily from council. A couple examples are manager and supervisory training series. Most notably, our training, required training on human resources administrative rule 2.02, which is our prohibition against work.
 workplace harassment, discrimination, and retaliation, as well as child abuse reporting. Although the state legislature has mandated city employees to be reporters, it doesn't mandate the training, but we do mandate that so employees understand what their obligations are.
 So as I noted, Council has from time to time decided that these trainings are important to ensure that our managers and employees have a solid grounding in certain information and to ensure that city values are achieved, again, such as reporting child abuse and creating a workplace that is free from discrimination.
 We think it is time to move from an informal process to one that is more formalized but not a cumbersome process to accomplish our goals. So the ordinance delegates to the HR director the authority to designate training as mandatory if it meets certain criteria which are listed in the ordinance. And that includes ensuring understanding and compliance with law, city codes, city rules, regulations,
 to support citywide initiatives and mandates as adopted by city council to reduce potential risk and liability to the city, and to define and communicate expectations and ensure ethical, professional, appropriate behavior and conduct on the part of city employees in their official capacity.
 We also have a provision, of course, for council or bureau directors with their commissioner in charge approval to also request that trainings be made mandatory, again, consistent with this criteria.
 Currently, we have two trainings where are kind of in the wings waiting for this ordinance to go through to be designated as mandatory. One of those is the Equity 101 training that the Office of Equity and Human Rights has been offering for
 Think close to two years now, but it's not mandatory training It would fit the criteria that we listed in the ordinance and the second out of the auditor's office would be mandated training on records Management and retention which of course is hugely important to us as a city as well I would just want to turn it over to Gail Baird for a moment to talk a little bit more about the program. So Good morning mayor Hales and commissioners we have found with the I
 with the recent citywide training program becoming more utilized, that bureaus are noticing the improvements in employee performance, in reduction of risk, and other achievements through the program. And this would simply make it easier for us as a bureau and as the overseers of the citywide training program to assist bureaus in providing training that,
 that will continue to do that. Some other areas that we may find ourselves focusing on would be areas of safety training. Currently, the city does not have a mandatory safety training program for citywide use, and so that's probably something we would like to be exploring with risk in the future. Thank you.
 We have also seen excellent results since council mandated a little over two years ago refresher training for 2.2. At that time, in 2012, we realized that while most city employees had gone through the training, we didn't have an adequate tracking system, which our city learner system now allows us to do through its learning management system.
 and that people are getting the refresher training, some of whom in the past did not have the training for over 10 years. So it's those kinds of things that have made our overall training programs far more effective than in the past. We continue to look forward to doing more of that. Thank you. Any other questions? Please, Mayor. First of all, I'm delighted that Equity 101 is going to be mandated and approved.
 As coincidentally, I'll be spending Friday afternoon in Equity 101 over in the Portland building.
 I think that's very important. I guess I'm less clear about the current status of Administrative Rule 2.02. Is it now mandatory or have we delegated to you the right, the authority to make that judgment? We do consider it mandatory based on Council's request that it be mandatory, but we have not had a formalized process to do that in the past.
 So that training, our manager and supervisory series are considered mandatory, and we do require employees to go through those, but it has not been through a formalized process. Does this action today give you more power to make that happen? Yes. Because I think it's the sense of the – it's certainly my strong sense as the co-author of the new 2.02. I think it's the sense of the council that that should be mandatory. On what frequency and how you balance –
 training in the first instance with refresher courses, I think we delegate to your good judgment how to do that. But I do think it's the strong sense of this body that 2.02 should be mandatory. Absolutely, yes. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you both. Is there anyone wants to speak on this item? Okay, it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote, please.
 Thank you both for your good work in this area. Novick. Thank you. Fritz. I'm really pleased to hear about the tracking system too. When I worked at OHSU, there was mandatory training that you had to take every year, and the computer would tell you that you have not done it and you need to do it. And it was very easy to take online as well. So I appreciate both the in-person trainings and the availability of the videos and others to catch up at odd hours of the day and night.
 Thank you. Aye. Okay. 568. Authorized contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of Southwest Stevenson and Southwest Hamilton drainage and road shoulder improvements, BES Project E10131 for $560,000. Second reading roll call. Fish. Aye. Aye.
 Novick. Aye. Fritz. I appreciated hearing last week that the bureaus are aware of the concerns of the neighborhood and helping to address them. Aye. Hales. Aye. K-569. Authorize a competitive solicitation for the purchase of water system hydrants and valves at an estimated cost of $5,220,000. Mr. Fish. This is a reasonably straightforward procurement. I'm going to turn it over to Dave Peters. Okay.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. The purpose of this legislation is to authorize a competitive solicitation via an invitation to bid, which will be administered by the City Procurement Office. The intent of the invitation to bid will be to select a qualified vendor to enter into a five-year agreement to purchase hydrants and valves for our water system in support of the work completed under the Water Bureau's Hydrant Installation and Replacement Program.
 This new five-year agreement will support the Water Bureau's current asset management strategies in an effort to maintain our 14,200 fire hydrants and 47,000 valves in our system. This program has grown from replacing 100 hydrants and 225 valves a year in 2011 at a cost of about $300,000. Okay.
 And if you're doing the math on that, like I do as an engineer, that's a replacement cycle of 140 to 200 years on those components. And these are moving parts that don't last that long. We've also had difficulty with that we have hydrants that are near 100 years old that are obsolete, we can no longer get parts for. So...
 Based on that, our improved efforts through our asset management, we're replacing 300 hydrants and 700 valves a year at a cost of $900,000 a year. The Water Bureau will maintain this level of replacement over the next five years.
 and these levels were set based on addressing those life cycle replacement lives, the hydrants that are obsolete, which we can no longer get parts for, addressing out-of-service hydrants and valves, and installing new valves when pipe replacements expand our system. At this point, I'd like to have Annette Dabosinski talk about the proposed agreement. Thank you, Dave. Good morning, Commissioners, Mayor.
 The city's current price agreement for hydrants and valves will shortly reach its five-year term and contract dollar limit, and the Water Bureau is interested in a new solicitation to ensure competition and obtain the best value to our customers. The estimated value of the proposed procurement is $5.2 million and is intended to last five years.
 For the new price agreement, the Water Bureau estimated an expenditure of approximately 900K in the first year, increasing by 5% per year, to account for increase in material cost for the next five years. The Water Bureau plans to continue its pace of system maintenance to include approximately 300 hydrant installations and replacements and 700 valve installations and or replacements per year during the period of the requested procurement.
 Per city code, due to the estimated value, the annual cost of more than 500K, the Water Bureau is requested to complete an ordinance to obtain city council's authorization to conduct the procurement action and to authorize the chief procurement officer to execute a contract and agreement. The ongoing purchase of hydrants and valves through a competitive solicitation will ensure the best value for the City of Portland residents, knowing the hydrants and valves will be well maintained and replaced when needed.
 The Bureau's confidence level for the procurement action is the estimated cost, and the estimated cost is marginal. The Portland Water Bureau plans to continue its pace of system maintenance to include approximately 300 hydrant installations and replacements of 700 valve installations and replacements each year during the period of this requested procurement. Per city procurement office, a formal information to bid, an ITB,
 will be used in accordance to the code, City Code 533. Bids will be accepted by City procurement using an online reverse auction process. In closing, we ask that you please accept this ordinance requesting authorization to begin this competitive solicitation for the purchase of the fire hydrants and valves in support of the Water Bureau's Hydrant Installation and Replacement Program. Thank you. Did I hear you right? You have 14,000 hydrants?
 14,200 hydrants in our system. So now at 300 a year, you're on a 46-year cycle, right? That's good. That's better. Dumb question. Are these bronze or are they steel? I mean, do they –
 Well, there's various components. The bodies themselves are ductile iron, and then the interior components are, there's brass and steel on the interior components. So the parts that move are not ferrous? Right. Okay. Just seem like they might rust if they're not used very often. I know the firefighters go out and test them periodically, or maybe the Water Bureau does, but... Yeah, we both do. Yeah. Yes. Why is the cost confidence level marginal?
 So it's based on an estimate. We're looking to actually possibly save costs because of the type of solicitation. We can talk a little bit about the solicitation of the ITB, which is going to then follow the reverse auction. So it could actually end up being pretty, I would say, pretty –
 or high, at a higher level. You lost me a bit on that one. So is the answer, are you using the term marginal because you think that given the way you're doing this procurement, there could be savings beyond what you're currently anticipating? So the price could be going below, going south, not north? Because the concern that we would have, of course, is if you're unsure about the
 your estimate and it goes north. But it sounds to me like you're hedging against the fact that it could come in below estimates. Correct, sir, yes. That's a problem we'd be happy to have. And the final contract comes back to council for approval. It does. Yes, ma'am. Great. Other questions? Thank you all very much. Thanks. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it rolls forward to second reading next week. Thank you. 570.
 Authorize application to the Federal Emergency Management Agency through the Oregon Military Department Office of Emergency Management for the Emergency Management Performance Grant in the amount of $385,027 for positions and programs. I had a request to reschedule this. Yes, please. Is that to June 10th? Yes, please. Without objection, we'll reschedule that to June 10th. All right. 571.
 authorize a contract with R&H Construction in the amount of $718,991 to complete emergency structural repairs to the Director Park canopy. And Commissioner Fritz, I understand you want this referred back. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. Then, without objection, we'll refer that back to Commissioner Fritz's office and we'll recess until 2 p.m. Why do we need $700,000 worth of emergency repairs to this?
 we'll get started and make let you make your announcement and then we'll get going he'll be here good afternoon and welcome to the afternoon session city council would you call the roll please carla fish here saltzman novick here fritz hails here i understand commissioner novick has an announcement
 So I just want to let the world know that my office is committed to making Portland a better place now and for many years in the future. Some months ago, Katie Shriver, my policy director, gave birth to a beautiful boy named Charlie, and he's doing very well. And the other day, Andrea Valderrama, my outreach coordinator at East Portland, gave birth to Rosalia.
 and so that between the two of them they will ensure that Portland does great in 2040 okay we have we have an item on the calendar to proceed with at 2 o'clock and that's number 572 could you read that please
 Establish a program to provide incentives, training, and technical assistance to promote voluntary deconstruction as a viable alternative to mechanical demolition. Thank you. So this is another piece of the council's agenda.
 examination and at some levels re-examination of how we deal with development. We've recently dealt with demolition delay and notice. We've done updated HAZMAT certification rules, which BDS staff will be present here today to talk about, answer questions about. We're about to begin work on a single family code update to address issues of scale and efficiency.
 and size and fit, thank you, of infill development in neighborhoods. But deconstruction is the focus today about how we do demolition in those hopefully rare instances where it's justified. Do it in a way that perhaps creates more jobs than simply demolition.
 demolishing the house or structure improves safety for workers and neighbors, reduces waste, avoids just dumping carbon. The industry, of course, exists, and we have some folks here from the industry that deal with deconstruction. But even despite that innovation, we still see most houses being outright demolished rather than demolition and salvage. So I'm really excited about this.
 discussion. I'm excited about the work that's been done. We've got a team here from the Bureau to kick us off and then some folks from the community as well. So Michael and Sean, thank you for being here this afternoon and got a presentation for us. Take it away.
 Great. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Michael Armstrong with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'll provide just some brief context for this, and then Sean will describe the proposal in front of you today. As you noted, Mayor, today's resolution addresses deconstruction specifically, and we are mindful that this is one piece of this fairly complex constellation of issues that are about to appear on the screen here.
 related to demolitions, touches affordability, touches the issues around delay that council took up back in February, touches on neighborhood character and compatibility. What we want to talk about today is deconstruction. So when houses do need to come down, we want to do that in ways that
 provide the best benefits to the community. And deconstruction really can be a great example of a triple bottom line approach, where it's better for jobs. We get six jobs from deconstruction for every job that's created in a demolition project. It's better for neighborhood safety and health.
 take something down carefully, you get less dust, you can deal with any solvents or other things that you uncover along the way. Certainly better for carbon emissions, avoids the need to produce all these virgin raw materials, and reduces waste as well. And then, of course, it's producing a valuable building product. It's often high quality, and it's often affordable. So there are really a whole host of benefits that deconstruction provides to the community.
 In February of this year, Council took action around the delay and notification provisions around house demolitions. And at that time, Mayor, you had asked us to work together with stakeholders to bring a proposal back that would provide incentives and otherwise address deconstruction. And so that's what we have back for you today.
 This resolution would establish a voluntary incentive based deconstruction program. We've identified funding in the solid waste management fund that we will come back as part of the fall bump to try to secure and meanwhile we'll go ahead and get this program set up and be ready for the funding.
 And then this is intended as a pilot, so we'll be working closely with the community, both the deconstruction service providers, contractors, community members, so that in September of 2016 we'll be able to come back and report on what we've learned, how it's going, and recommendations for options at that time.
 So with that, I'll turn it over to Sean, and he'll describe the details of the proposal and just a little more background on deconstruction. Great, great. Thanks, Michael. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Sean Wood. I'm the Construction Waste Specialist for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And I want to interrupt the flow of things just a little bit and talk about some terminology so we can all be on the same page today. Okay.
 So when it comes to building removal, there's a couple of different options. One is demolition. This is one of the concerns in the neighborhoods. These houses come down usually through mechanical means.
 I'm using a large excavator, and the building is torn down, and the materials are sent to a recovery facility where they're sorted for recycling. A lot of the wood gets burned for energy recovery, and that's called hog fuel. I don't know if we'll hear that term today, but I'll throw it out there. And then a lot of the material ends up in the landfill. So despite efforts to harvest some of that material for recycling, it does end up in the landfill often. Okay.
 And then an alternative to mechanized demolition is deconstruction. So this is where a building is disassembled typically by hand. In the reverse order, it was constructed in order to salvage materials for reuse. So a difference between reuse and recycling.
 is repurposing salvaged building materials, so using things like wood flooring or sinks for their intended purpose and not necessarily crushing those up and creating a new material or a new product, which is recycling. And then again, when we talk about wood recycling, we're really talking about burning that for fuel or energy recovery. We,
 We established a deconstruction advisory group back in April and met a total of five times and got really good information from a group of interests ranging from the salvage industry, so both for and nonprofit deconstruction groups,
 experts, historic preservation. We had building builders, contractors, and recyclers, as well as representatives from the United Neighborhoods for Reform, or UNR. We also had membership from the Development Review Advisory Committee, or DRAC, and then also staff from BDS and Metro. And I'd like to personally thank those members that...
 came to the meetings and contributed a lot of their expertise and their commitment to the issue, and then also members of the public who also attended. Using their information and expertise, BPS, like Michael said, is proposing a phased approach, so starting with a voluntary incentive program and then looking at next steps for requirements for minimum salvage programs.
 The deconstruction incentive pilot would include training. So currently BPS is working with our procurement staff to develop a deconstruction training, a two-day training that we'll hold in September for the prime contractor development program. So we could potentially use that as a model going forward with training during the pilot program.
 We'll also provide technical assistance, so going out, meeting with folks on job sites, answering phone calls, meeting with firms. And then I think an important aspect of this is the program and project promotion. So how do we leverage a small project and get as much media attention out of that? What can we do with our own website and our own tools to get that information out into the public and promote deconstruction?
 And then financial incentives, again, would come from the Solid Waste Management Fund. I've identified $50,000 that we could use and distribute on a grant-based process. So that would include a selection committee based on industry experts and neighborhood representation, and we could distribute that using a set of criteria that could include innovation,
 and ways of reducing the time it takes to deconstruct or reduce the cost of deconstruction or innovative methods to achieve those. And, you know, the program would do promotion, but also what's the story on the actual projects and what can they do to promote deconstruction in their project. We can also look at criteria around the advancement of equity and how is a project communicated
 How is the project contributing to the community? And then commitment to training. So are projects going to kick off an existing deconstruction firm and taking things a little bit farther and using the training as a way to achieve that? And then, of course, reporting back to council in September of 2016 with additional steps, recommendations, and a report on how the program is going.
 And then in terms of schedule, what we're recommending is kicking off the pilot in fall of 2015, so fall of this year, and then reporting back to council in September, so roughly a year of operating the pilot. And then when we discuss next steps, if those include some sort of minimum salvage requirements, staff would go and work with the community and continued work with the Deconstruction Advisory Group to implement those plans.
 and then begin, you know, launch that phase two in summer of 2017. And then we envision, staff envisions, the deconstruction advisory group continuing to meet between now and the future, so to continue that good work.
 There's a lot of compelling reasons to be more aggressive with deconstruction. You'll hear about some of those today, but BPS really feels that a phased approach will be the best way to go. Benefits of the pilot help inform us of what those next steps are. We can figure out how to measure salvage materials. Do we do that by weight or volume or use a deconstruction calculator?
 We can also better understand the issues related with compliance and making sure things actually happen in the field.
 And we can reward and learn from innovative projects. It also gives us time to develop and conduct training and education to get the rest of the industry up to speed and hopefully the time to build capacity within the salvage industry and allow time for the building and demolition industry to adapt as we look towards future steps. When you say learn from innovative projects, I'm curious –
 don't we have a pretty good knowledge base about how large-scale deconstruction projects have worked in Portland? And I'm thinking, for example,
 when Home Forward did the redevelopment of Columbia Villa, the new Columbia. My understanding is that they decided to go the deconstruction route, and so there was a big effort to deconstruct those older homes. And presumably from that they learned about what works, what doesn't, was it cost-effective.
 and the like. So when we say reward and learn from innovative projects, are we also looking backward at the experience of other agencies and partners in doing deconstruction, or are you looking prospective in terms of what we learn under the pilot? Yeah, so there is –
 large base of knowledge out there, and we've got folks here in the audience today that do this for a living, and they certainly have a lot of knowledge. There's opportunities using the expertise of the deconstruction industry and potentially coupling that with the demolition industry. So, for example, in Seattle, hybrid deconstruction is popular.
 probably the most typical method for pulling down a building, and that's where they leverage the power and speed of a piece of equipment, the excavator, to lower walls and get those down on the ground where the workers can work on them more safely and efficiently. So something like that is an example of rewarding innovation and learning from that. So that's going to increase the speed at which they take down a building and potentially lower costs.
 Anything else? I believe that is it. Okay. Questions for Sean or Michael?
 Thank you both. And we have some invited testimony. I want to call up Joe Connell from Habitat Restore and Mary Helen Kincaid from the DRAC, Alondo Simpson from City of Rosa's Disposal and Recycling, and then we have a couple more, but let's take those three first. And welcome. Thanks for your involvement in this. Who would like to start? I guess I'm supposed to go first.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. Thank you for allowing us to be here today. It's great to be working on this project with you all. My name is Joe Connell. I am with Habitat for Humanity. I'm vice president of retail operations for us, and that means I oversee all three of our restores and our deconstruction program.
 I know you're, I'm pretty sure you're all familiar with Habitat and what we do and kind of how we do it. So I won't backtrack on that. But what I would like to point out, which is unique for us and unique in this setting we're in, is that we're a mortgage lender, a developer, a builder, a deconstruction contractor, a reuse retailer, and a neighborhood advocate. Thank you.
 We play a pretty unique role within this city, I believe. And I think our concerns touch a lot of the broad scope of concerns in this topic, all the way across the boards. Then I want to point out a little bit of what reuse and some of our deconstruction work has done for us and done for the community through us over the last year. Our program this year has exceeded $3 million in sales.
 income. We have raised over $1 million in cash for Habitat home building here in the Portland metro area in one year. We have diverted 10 to 12 million pounds of materials from the landfill or recycling. We've created 30 jobs and we have 59,000 workforce readiness or volunteer hours in our stores this year.
 I point these out because this was all made possible by reused materials. None of this would exist as part of our program without the diversion of materials that were either going to be thrown away or wasted. So that's a tremendous impact in our mind on the community from these types of materials that we're talking about.
 So I support, we support this resolution because we know we can do more. We're just touching the tip of the iceberg here with what we do. We know that. We see projects slip through our fingers all the time, and we know we can do more. And we know the need is great. There's a lot more that we could do to build our programs. There's a lot of waste we could divert. There's a lot of homes we can build. So...
 There's a lot of pieces here that can fit together for us. We do believe that this program would open doors for us and others in our industry and help build a broader industry that will make deconstruction more affordable and make it a more vital part of our local building industry. I think to date, we've been very separate. And I think I would love to see this program because it would help us
 build together bridges between our building industry and our deconstruction and reuse industry, and I think we can do a lot more together. We also believe that we need to find a balanced way to work together to promote further reuse and deconstruction while meeting as many of our mutual goals as possible and removing the barriers along the way.
 This is why we support the voluntary incentive-based approach outlined here, so that we can together learn how to move into a more fuller and more productive use of our resources throughout the city. Also, while I'm here, I want to thank the BPS team. They've been great to work with. Sean's been great to work with over these last five weeks. I...
 Don't know about you guys, but I'm really proud of our city and that they have this department and that they do the work they do. So thanks for leading that. Thank you. Thanks very much. Mary Helen? Welcome. Hi. Hi.
 For the record, I'm Mary Helen Kincaid, the chair of the Development Review Advisory Committee. Our official representative, Kristen Wells, attended the first couple meetings and then got employed by the city and couldn't fulfill the rest of it, so I got stuck in the chair today. I'm just, I usually operate from the standpoint of tell me the things I don't know so that you don't keep hearing the same things, but I just want to really emphasize the point that this proposal is a result of,
 about 16 months ago when DRAC started their attention in March of demolitions. And we were focusing on life and safety. But when we went out to the community, to all the meetings we went to, we heard about hazmat control and we heard about concerns about deconstruction and landfill. And so Jeff Fish, who was the then chair, encouraged that this conversation,
 a separate committee be addressed so that it was carefully analyzed and better incentives were found that we were able to do a proposal. So we're really excited that this committee was formed and worked in a very expedient fashion.
 And the other thing I wanted to point out is that two major accomplishments have happened in this area in 16 months. And I'm hard-pressed to say that I don't think that that much has been accomplished in a lot of areas. So I'm very proud of BDS and BPS and the citizens involved that we're able to bring these forward to protect citizens and also bring alternatives to the table about...
 what happens when a demolition happens. The one thing that I keep saying repeatedly is that deconstruction is a form of demolition, and there's not a person in the room that doesn't think that deconstruction is not a good thing. But sometimes people get that confused that a house is being deconstructed, and somehow that doesn't.
 register with them. And then the site development and excavation has to come in and take the basement out in those cases. And so there's some considerations there. And when we do public outreach, that'll be one thing that I think we need to clarify for people so that we don't get them angry again that they think we're saving the house by deconstructing it and building it somewhere else. Or in some cases, that does happen.
 I think this is a great opportunity to connect. As Joe mentioned, the deconstructors, the building industry, Jeff's not here to defend himself, but he was one of the first to say he had no idea what was involved in deconstruction, and it had always been too expensive, and he didn't know. So they worked with Lubbock Construction, and I don't know where that went, but they had a sample house, and they went out and did bids and back and forth. So I think it's a great opportunity to connect those people and find solutions
 ground for them to work on to make this fair and equitable for everybody. The issues that came up with the demolition issue was deconstruction, the hazmat handling and the infill and design. You're addressing all of those. I wanted to give you credit that those things are moving forward and citizens are participating.
 I think that a lot of great people worked on these and in a short period of time so it proves that we can do good things. There's, I think you'll hear testimony today for mandatory deconstruction and penalties, and I just don't think that a negative reaction to this is going to work. I think a positive approach of incentivizing people that are doing good work, sharing that good knowledge, helping other people who don't understand how the process works, doing training, and, you know,
 It doesn't help in a, and you all know this, but I've got to say it out loud, it doesn't help in a collaborative effort to villainize any of those stakeholders and say one person is the cause of the root of all evil. I don't know.
 Everybody is involved in this process and we need to make it work for everybody in some fashion. And demolition, again, was that issue. Nobody was happy and in the end I think that was a success. Everybody had to collaborate and give in a little on what was uncomfortable to them and I think that same thing will happen here. Several builders that came to the meetings and participated in these meetings even said they didn't care where the incentives went. They just wanted this to be a fair and equitable program that would work for everybody.
 In the end, the property owner is the one who will really benefit from the incentives because they'll be able to do something that feels good to them and that's not going to cost them an extra $3,000, $4,000 on top of what the costs already are.
 It might not be the best analogy, but it was the best one that I could come up with was curbside recycling and how that was handled. We didn't go out and penalize people and carry a big stick and say you must use those. Many of my neighbors complained. And I was one of the people who went around the flyers early on and said, here's what you get to do. And I got yelled at about the roll carts. And I got yelled at about every two weeks as infrequent as they could get their garbage. And the things were stinky. And they had rats. And I live in a wetlands area and all of those things.
 don't hear a peep. Everybody likes it now. I mean, it's almost a community event. I mean, you know, I get to roll our roll carts out and get to help our neighbors. So it just took a while for people to get used to what it was, something new. And change is hard for all of us. I use that example because people just get in a pattern and they have things and now you've added roll carts and things. So I think that same thing is going to happen here on a grander scale.
 I think we need to continue the positive approaches that this proposal brought forward, reward those people, whoever they are, that are doing good things. Sean mentioned incentives for best practices. I think there's a lot out there. I've learned a lot. And I think that the committee as a whole agreed that this is a good way to teach people how to do good things. Thank you.
 Joe had a classic quote that I really like, and we should somehow fashion this in a marketing thing. He says, I want everyone to feel the love of deconstruction. And I think if we can get to that point with a phased-in approach, we're going to create the jobs. We're going to save precious resources. People will learn what's being recycled, and maybe they're going to want to start using those. They will all attest to the fact that there's a huge market that's developed over the years. So...
 I think this is a great start to things. I think that the building community is on board. They're just concerned about it being fair and equitable and not be put in a villainized situation where they don't believe in, they believe in, I can't speak for them. I probably got a letter from the HBA. But the incentive program should be so that the process works better, not just...
 Reward those people who you believe should be rewarded. So I think that's good I want to echo Joe's comments on the good work by the BPS staff and I think Someone from drac will continue on On this committee and follow it. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. I know welcome. Thank you mayor hells and members of the council for the record a Lando Simpson a
 business owner, City of Rose Disposal and Recycling, and our DBA division, Core Recycling, which is a material recovery facility that sees a lot of demolition debris as well as new construction debris. So I have a wealth of knowledge in our time being involved with discarded materials and managing construction debris.
 But in regards to why we're here today, I'm here today to support the resolution on behalf of the deconstruction program that would foster the necessary innovative growth in the construction industry, and most importantly, create more green-collar jobs for our local economy. Remember, you heard it here. As a rapidly growing city, our sustainable reputation, leadership, and strategies have fostered a substantial amount of this growth.
 Growth that would not have been made possible had our philosophies not been instilled into the fabric of what makes Portland, Portland today. For the various regulations, policies, principles that have become the guardian of our economy, our environment, and most importantly, the people that live here, these new innovative opportunities that exist now would not be so prevalent today. As someone who lives and breathes in the world of discarded materials, as I had mentioned earlier, being an owner of a locally recycling company,
 It is extremely important that the city of Portland take a stance and make a conscious decision about how we as a region plan to responsibly manage construction and demolition debris now as well as in the future. I have made a mindful decision of my own to venture into the construction industry specifically in order to provide these varied deconstruction services which will enable my firm to become more diverse and a first of its kind.
 I have taken many early steps in preparation for this endeavor, such as investing in more real estate in order to stockpile salvage materials, which do have end-use market value, and most notably being selected to participate in the city's prime contractor development program. And now I sit here before you today to encourage an incentive-based approach for deconstruction practices, because it not only assists small businesses such as mine to enter the marketplace, but it further builds upon the city's sustainability goals and aspirations.
 The drastic demand for residential living units here in the metro area and fostering the many construction cranes that currently stand is just a small metaphor of the growing demand around salvaged materials. We must be logical and strategic that when the demand is there and the supply does not support it, we as an ecosystem must collectively build that infrastructure, that infrastructure that is necessary to grow that supply.
 The window of opportunity is wide open right now, and I highly encourage your support. Therefore, we can see the continued reuse and salvage markets' innovative growth in the domestic and international marketplace. Thank you. Thank you. Questions for these panelists?
 Thank you very much. Sorry we've taken that great volunteer, Larry O'Day, out of Habitat for a few weekends, but he'll be back. He's having knee surgery. Larry volunteers for our police chief, volunteers for Habitat almost every Saturday, so he's temporarily out of action. He'll have his nail belt back on soon enough. Let's see. I think we have a couple more folks that we invited. Barbara Kerr and Shane Endicott, are they here? Yes, Shane. Come on up.
 Good afternoon. Afternoon. Afternoon. All right. I know you want to be the tail end. Okay. Give him that privilege, Barbara. There's more power. I'll give him that privilege, yes. I respect him well. Okay. So my name is Barbara Kerr, and I represent the United Neighborhoods for Reform, and I am their representative on the Deconstruction Advisory Group.
 And as you all know, and have stated so eloquently in the opening to this meeting, which I was so glad to hear, the list of benefits to deconstruction versus mechanical demolition is very long. Meeting climate action plan, affordable housing, economic development, and most urgently reduces the public's involuntary exposure to hazardous materials. Thank you for including that.
 When UNR met with the Portland's Neighborhoods, 43 formally signed on to our resolution, but in none of those meetings was deconstruction ever controversial. If a house must be removed and cannot be recited, as you also included, that's great, the public feels deconstruction is a given.
 The UNR appreciates the city moving forward on making deconstruction the way Portland demolishes buildings. We would gladly support the resolution if it were amended to 1. Direct all public funds for a deconstruction program to go to training, education, and certification for deconstructionists, including the existing industry, and not incentivize contractors and developers, and that these efforts maintain the standards set by the existing deconstruction industry. They are our leaders."
 to shorten the time before deconstruction is required by taking immediate actions to train, inform, and educate to support voluntary deconstruction as soon as possible.
 and set an endpoint, a measurable goal, in terms of full deconstruction. Plus, in order to meet that goal, setting a date for when the DAG committee will determine if a given amount of progress in full or partial deconstruction has been made, which, if not reached, will require making deconstruction mandatory. We want to see it happen voluntarily with support. We don't want to have to make it mandatory, but if it's not happening fast enough, that would be the next tool. Thank you.
 We recommend that if the proposal cannot be amended as such today, that it be sent back to the DAG Committee. In the DAG meetings, we discussed the following concerns related to these requested amendments.
 Relating to our First Amendment, incentivizing developers was an issue. We feel paying developers to deconstruct or paying deconstruction companies to help lower their bids creates two major problems. One, it misleads the building industry and public into thinking that deconstruction is not a viable business model, a premise that deconstruction industry in Portland has been disproving for the last 18 years. Two, it further incentivizes demolition of our affordable homes or homes of character that make up most of our desirable neighborhoods and our historic homes.
 If you pay people to demolish, we're going to have more demolitions. Relating to the Second Amendment, the concerns about shortening time were that we needed to allow time for developers to transition. But it's not like plastic bags and styrofoam containers. There's no inventory to use up. There are professionals ready, willing, and able to bid new jobs immediately.
 And I have to say, I started selling used building materials when we founded Rejuvenation in 1977. That's 38 years ago. The public response was hugely enthusiastic from day one. We, including the building industry, have had decades to see that deconstruction is where we are going, where we have to go. There has been plenty of time to transition and some have done so very successfully, but certainly not enough. Another concern was the increased cost to the developers.
 But it's been shown that the difference in cost, depending on the building being taken down, is in the $5,000 to $7,000 range on average. We're talking homes. A small amount compared to what is being paid to buy a house just to tear it down.
 Developers would have to pay for the abatement of materials that deconstruction will expose. But first, abatement costs have greatly decreased over time. And second, they are going to have to abate as we move toward Senate Bill 705 and further increase control of hazardous materials exposure. As stated in the DAG meetings, 80% of the time a house goes through initial abatement before deconstruction. They have to be called back because they found more hazardous materials in the building when they started to take it apart.
 Those materials are not found if a developer does do the initial abatement before crunching the house. And so they go up in the smoke. The abatement companies...
 Just do sampling. You have to take the house apart. You have to open the walls to expose all that possible hazardous materials. As we move toward not allowing hazardous materials to be released into the air, mechanical demolition except for the concrete foundations is not going to be feasible. It will have to be done by deconstruction, and the city is doing the building industry a favor by supporting them to quickly make the transition to deconstruction. Question came up, can the market handle the influx of materials?
 I heard in the DAG meetings that deconstructionists said yes. Shane will tell you the rebuilding center sells 700 to 1,000 doors a month. A month. There's a market. There's a huge market. And that's just locally. Besides condition, volume determines the price of used materials. Therefore, if there are more materials on the market, the prices will be lower. The lower prices fuel an even larger market. There was a question if the deconstructionists could respond to the increased workload.
 I heard, yes, they can. It may not be easy, but these guys are our pioneers. They want to see it happen. They will put their heads out there and their necks out there. Plus, there are also organizations already in the business of training deconstruction laborers and companies. Deconstruction warehouses and yards are not like building a new office building or putting in lots of technical equipment.
 computer facilities, right? Space can be rented.
 And existing companies would come from out of state, existing businesses such as abatement companies and mechanical demolition companies would expand into deconstruction and small businesses would spawn. As a personal note, this is what I love about the whole thing the most is because when, back when deconstructionists were called hand wreckers, those hand wreckers were people who didn't have the education, didn't have the training, just had the care and the work ethic to get a beat up old truck and go out and start taking buildings apart down to the ground and saved everything.
 Another issue is time for the city to develop standards and standards and training. But the industry has been around this town for 18 years. There are people nationally and internationally doing it. You could adapt and adopt what they already have in place.
 They've been using their standards that long. And BPS is already planning a training for the prime contractors list in September. With a grant from Metro, they could expand it to more individuals and companies wanting to be trained and certified. Thank you.
 Earth Advantage has an accredited training already and the local deconstructionists would be available to inform their process. The city could help sponsor information events for builders and developers to gain access to the deconstruction industry from deconstructionists to reuse sales. There's a lot that can be done with non-profits even in promoting deconstruction and educating the industry, the traditional building industry.
 There is also concern about the city being able to enforce deconstruction regulations. Yes, that can be a nightmare, but not if we make it simple. If the criteria is full deconstruction or partial on the way there, the definitions are pretty simple. As I understand it, full is complete removal to the foundation and partial is removal down to the studs and joists. This has been discussed in the DAG Committee.
 It's easy for both the city to enforce that and also for the neighbors to be watchdogs. The neighbors will watch, and they can tell the difference between not completely deconstructing and completely deconstructing if it's that simple.
 Deconstruction also greatly reduces the need for the city or any agency to enforce public safety laws for hazardous materials. It's difficult for deconstructionists to avoid following the rules in terms of safety, even if they wanted to. For one, they have more workers out there, and two, the extra time allows for more time to get caught. So enforcement of hazmat regulations will be easier and more thorough, relieving the city of a major issue to address.
 We need leadership. We don't need transition or more debate. We need leadership. We need the council to announce that Portland is committed to deconstruction because of all it does for the city. Then set the goal now. Let the building industry know what the city is going to require and why. Give them a head start. If we are beginning the training in the next few months and stating the commitment to deconstruction now, the transitioning can move forward and give DAG a head start on working out the needs that arise. Two, follow through on getting the facts rather than debating facts.
 The deconstructionist industry locally, nationally, and internationally has history and studies. As you were saying, Mr. Fish, when Portland moves to deconstruction rather than mechanical demolition, we will attract national and international interest and help. We are not alone and do not need to start from scratch. Three, order an economic study done by an economist to describe the costs and triple bottom line benefits for the city. This could take a year for the study to be done, but it will also serve as an assessment of the success during that year to report back to the public.
 The timeline that UNR would find accessible is public education starting with immediate announcement that the city is committed to deconstruction and why, and publicizing efforts such as the training. September 2015, this fall, training for laborers and contractors leading to certification. Right now, Sean has planned for the prime contractors training to be a model. I think we can take that money and expand it.
 to do simultaneous. Okay, so then by March 2016, have DAG review the progress of voluntary constructions. If we're not on track to meet the end goal, full deconstruction becomes mandatory as of September 2016. We need leadership and we need it now. With an average of a demolition a day, we can't wait any longer. We have known for decades that it is what we need to do.
 UNR does not want to see this proposal go back to the DAG without a strong and responsible resolution. We are asking you to amend it to require the use of funds only for training and education, maintain the high level of standards of the existing deconstruction industry, and take immediate action in starting the transition with a set, measurable, and short timeline for the goal of deconstruction being the way Portland does demolition if a building must be removed. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Thanks. Shane, you get to back clean up. Thank you for the opportunity to share, and thanks for the opportunity to participate on the Deconstruction Advisory Group. I think that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability did an excellent job and brought a really diverse group of people together. Personally, I have over 40 years of deconstruction experience and reuse, and 20 of those, I guess, would be deemed professionally successful.
 I'm the executive director of Our United Villages, local nonprofit. I'm a co-founder of the organization as well as the Rebuilding Center, which is one of our biggest projects. We launched in 1998. And as I think has been said, we divert a lot of building materials, on average eight tons a day, and we have approximately 300 people on average come through a day reusing it. And we really are just scratching the surface.
 I just mostly want to restate that I support a lot of what's already been shared through the other testimony as far as the facts and pointing out the benefits of deconstruction and what it would have for our city. I get to see it on a daily basis. Just from, again, while we're moving, it seems like we're moving a lot, we're just barely scratching the surface today.
 But just today, we have a group of youth in our shop that are making book kiosks that are free for the neighborhoods. You've probably seen them around. But we've had a number of times youth come through with group leaders, and they build these out of all free reclaimed materials. And
 We also have volunteers coming through. We have over 2,000 volunteers coming through a year, representative of every demographic in our community, age, socioeconomic, people going through all kinds of different changes, people who just want to make a positive difference.
 And they come in and use those materials as a vehicle for improving the social fabric, strengthening the social fabric of our city. And it wouldn't be an opportunity without it. It's incredible work all over.
 We've been able to donate materials on a regular basis to all kinds of groups and individuals who are doing things for free, everything from Girl Scouts to group youth right now working with the village building convergence and free housing in our city. I should say it's transitional housing, but we've been able to donate free materials to those efforts as well.
 And I guess I would just share that one important role we'll serve in this city for helping this be successful is that we've always had a policy since we started that we share all of our knowledge and experience for free with anyone, any entity, for-profit or non-profit, that wants to do this work. They are invited into our organization, and they shadow our employees. They shadow our staff.
 They shadow our operations. The only thing I can't give them access to is the personnel files because it's a legal issue. But otherwise, everything else, we don't have any secrets. It's come in, learn how we do this, and export it back to wherever you're going to do these projects, whether they're across the street from our facility or they're across the country.
 And to restate the interest in this is international. We have people coming from all over the world. In fact, the last two days we've had German television and television
 radio network, which is the largest viewed public network in Germany, videotaping our facility and going on our job sites, our deconstruction site, and looking at it as a model. And we've had many other countries come and folks invite us from all over to come and start these in their communities.
 across the country as well as in other countries. And our feedback always is we don't do that. What we do is we share what we have for free and come to us and hang out and take whatever you find is useful. So I just want to restate that we think that from our experience, hands-on experience, we see this bringing tremendous value to the citizens or the residents of Portland as well as the city as a whole.
 And those networks that are coming here from all over are really looking at our ethos of sustainability. And our organization is committed as much as we are to the environment and sustainability and economy, really the social fabric of what makes up our society and reaching our full potential as a community. So, yeah.
 Just wanted to share that we think it's a great idea. We think it's a great direction, obviously. Thank you. Thank you. I should have probably asked a lot of this question, too, but Barbara raised it, and that is there was this concern or debate within the advisory group about capacity of the industry to ramp up. So regardless of whether it's a hugely successful incentive program or a move more quick or rapid move to mandatory deconstruction,
 what do you think about that capacity issue? What does that curve look like for you and others in the industry about what, assuming we're moving this direction from less than 10% of houses that are being demolished, being deconstructed to 20, 30, 50, eventually 100%
 What are the difficulties, if any? Yeah, well, I'll liken it to – I used this example the other day. If you've ever flown on a 747, they don't have to take 20 or 30 minutes to reach your altitude. You can get there much faster. Right.
 It's not as comfortable. Your ears will pop, but you can do it. I've been in a country where they do that, altitude much quicker. What would happen is that you would have the industry and people who want to get into the industry moving much faster if the mandate was sooner. That's how it would look. And it would be.
 Organizations like ours would go through some growing pains to bring on that kind of staffing. We've doubled our staff before in a short period of time. The other way is just a slower process.
 inclined to getting there. So that's really how it would work. When we went from six, or actually really four deconstructionists when we launched our full-time year-round deconstruction program in 1999, we had, we ended up getting a lot of recognition on a huge project. We did a city block of homes for the Multnomah Athletic Club.
 And we had to go from a handful of employees in that department, just the deconstruction department, to over 33 in a very short time. As an organization, that kind of growth.
 We felt it, but at the same time, the benefit was we went from doing a handful of projects to doing 150 to 200 projects a year, not all full dismantles, because it doesn't have to just be a whole building. It can also be removing reusables. So it's a long answer, but I think the accurate answer is that you'll see an industry get there either way. Okay. All right. Thank you. Other questions for Barbara or Shane?
 Thank you both. Thanks very much. Thank you. And so I don't believe we have any other invited testimony, but people are signed up to speak. So if we could call them, please. We have six people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Margaret Davis, Terry Parker, and Sarah Long. You have a PowerPoint there, Margaret? I just have a picture to show you. I'm trying to get into it. Carla will help you get that loaded. Carla can help you. I just didn't see the footer. Oh.
 thank you for this opportunity to be here today i'm margaret davis i work with united neighborhoods for reform and also i'm on the boards of the rose city park and beaumont wilshire neighborhood associations take a look at this picture this was taken friday and it shows a demolition at 3558 northeast 44th avenue two doors away from me if you live nearby your home any play structure or barbecue in your yard and your vegetable gardens would be covered in the dust emanating from this demolition
 It was a breezy day, so I could clearly see these clouds of dust billowing across the block. Federal studies have shown that this dust travels up to 400 feet. The house was under 600 square feet, but the dust kept coming all day long and even continued this week. What was in that dust? Nobody knows. We do know that it is nearly certain that any home built before 1978, as this home was, was full of lead paint.
 Every can of lead paint had 15 pounds of lead in it. Asbestos also could have been part of the toxic clouds, but again, we don't know what was in those clouds of dust. Based on public health concerns, this council recently banned smoking in city parks. The health effects of lead and asbestos also are well known, and the Centers for Disease Control has said that there is no amount of lead that is safe in children.
 I saw the dust from this demolition coat, the swing set my neighbors kept for her granddaughters. If public health is as important to this council as you say it is, then I urge you to tackle the uncontrolled release of lead and asbestos with as much seriousness as you did the smoking hazard in city parks. The toxic drift launched by mechanical demolition can be avoided through deconstruction.
 The careful dismantling of homes, coordinated with certified abatement activities, helps contain these hazardous materials and sends them to the appropriate facilities. It does carry a small additional cost, but safeguarding our air and earth are worth it. We are worth it. I understand the council doesn't want to touch the toxic issue of hazardous waste, hazardous materials control and enforcement.
 but Portland needs to address it as it enters its third record-breaking year for home demolitions. The voluntary measures recently instituted by BDS clearly will not protect Portlanders from exposure to lead and asbestos. Developers will pursue business as usual with wasteful mechanical demolition that sends lead and asbestos into our air, bodies, and lungs. You don't have to directly touch hazmat control to fix this problem. You can make deconstruction the safe, sustainable solution.
 As our elected leaders, you have the opportunity, even the responsibility, to prioritize public health and safety over the profits of a small group of players. If deconstruction was made mandatory in a timely manner, as opposed to the voluntary program proposed in the document today, and if the costs of deconstruction were assumed by those profiting from the demolition instead of public monies, UNR could readily support the proposal at hand.
 The Deconstruction Advisory Group has done fine work and it would be a shame if its efforts were made moot by tenuous timelines, voluntary status, and payouts to developers to do the right thing.
 Make deconstruction mandatory and fast track its implementation. And in so doing, you will put a stop to the toxic clouds that no one should have to ingest. Thank you for this opportunity. Thank you. Thanks very much. Terry, welcome. Thank you. Terry Parker, UNR Steering Committee. I live in northeast Portland. Thank you.
 When a home is to be torn down, it must be done with respect, responsibility, and a high level of sustainability. On December 17th of last year, I testified before you stating that Portland is in the rears when it comes to managing home demolitions and that private property becomes a public problem when 75% or more of a single-family home is sent to the landfill and when dust and potentially hazardous materials are spread out.
 spread to and trespass on neighboring properties. Kudos in that the conversation is now taking place within the Deconstruction Advisory Committee. However, the actual pace of progress is moving way too slow. How many more single-family homes will continue to be torn down using an excavator?
 How much more dust, dirt, and hazardous materials will be sprued into residential neighborhoods and into the lungs of children at play? The estimate on track is that over 400 vintage single-family homes will be torn down this year, most of those teardowns by mechanical demolition, clawing at, ripping apart, and crunching up what was once somebody's family home. The resolution timetable can be likened to a local milk run just drifting down on a bumpy road
 branch line railroad when the need and the public demand is for high-speed rail
 To pick up the pace on the route towards better air quality and deconstruction becoming the norm, any financial incentives in the form of taxpayer dollars must be directed towards growing the deconstruction industry through training, education, and certification. The money should not be going to developers to subsidize the eco-friendly teardown option. Accompanying any taxpayer funding must be an accelerated timetable towards a policy change due date that includes regular progress reports along the way to you, the City Council.
 At the end of the line, the goal must be that with deconstruction, a significant percentage of materials from any home teardowns are preserved for the reusable market. Ultimately, when the train pulls into the station and the people arrive at their green-inspired designation, deconstruction and the reuse of building materials becomes the standard in Portland if and when a single-family home is torn down. And finally, the city already has a hammer it can use to start pulling nails, even those stubborn nails.
 Make deconstruction mandatory as a component of the Climate Change Action Plan. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, City Commissioners. It is an honor to be able to speak with you today. My name is Sarah Long, and I am here today to speak on behalf of the over half of all Portlanders, even approaching 60% of all Portlanders at this point who are renters. And as we all know, the percentage of people like me in Portland will only increase over time.
 Tenants, while constituting a majority of the city's residents, are underrepresented when it comes to creating policy and are underrepresented when it comes to you, our elected officials, being able to hear feedback about how those policies are impacting their real lives. Fewer renters can make it to community meetings. Fewer renters are able to embark upon the steep learning curve to understand that thing that no one human being can completely understand, the land use rules.
 I have at this point begun correcting the facts given to me by Killian Condon. If you don't know who Killian Condon is, that's indicative of how deeply troubling this all is. Killian Condon is our only, as in just one guy, DEQ inspector in this entire portion of the state. And he has it easy. He only covers these northwest counties. The other guy covers more than three quarters of the state. And I have yet to convince him to come inspect a site where I've photographed asbestos fibers blowing around in the breeze.
 I have more stuff in here about being a renter, but I'm just going to skip that. And I want to just go back to what Barbara said. Everything she said was so wonderful. And she is truly one of the pioneers in the city in reuse. She founded rejuvenation. I mean, wow. So, you know, I just want to revert back to what she said and say we really need rejuvenation.
 You know, we need for that $50,000. That will be followed by other monies. We need it to go to education and training. It should go to Earth Advantage, we think. They already have the training program in place. We would like to see...
 better timeline and we would like to see as she said if with strong encouragement and use of the Bully pulpit from the elected officials saying hey guys, this is Portland get on acting like being Portland Okay, let's reuse and reduce and actually recycle. So Yeah, I would like to say just I'd like to support her plan the ones that she already suggested to you And I thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you all. I
 Okay, next. Preston Browning, Robert Bernstein, and Brandon Spencer-Hardell. Robert, go ahead. You're there on first, so you can start first. Thanks. I'm Robert Bernstein. I live up on Mount Tabor. I've lived in southeast Portland 46 years since 1969. And so I was back there, and I'm thinking, well, I came here in 69. A lot of people came out here from Eastern colleges at about that time. I came from Brooklyn. A lot of people came from Columbia.
 And we started doing things that we felt were the right things. Nobody gave me an incentive to do child care for feminist functions or to go to consciousness raising groups or help out at Friends of Food or Pupil's Food Store. You did things because they were the right things, and that's what Portland should be.
 I do not personally want any of my tax money going to developers. If they don't want to feel demonized, there is such a simple remedy for that. Don't do things that will lurk in the back of your head as having done the wrong things. Thank you.
 It's really very basic. Don't get into some Jungian shadow sort of existence where you feel bad about things and then you feel demonized. Don't mess up backyard habitat. Don't take away people's views. Don't take away people's privacy. You don't want to feel demonized. It's really simple.
 I'd like to see this program mandatory, and again, I don't want to see any of my money going to incentivize towards developers. Use it towards training and implementation. I would also remind the council that the developers got a break on hookup fees, and I'd like to see that ended. It's my understanding that residential rates for water or sewer could have been 8% lower if they hadn't gotten this break.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Greetings, member of the council and Mayor Hales. Thank you today for being here and hearing this proposal. My name is Preston Browning. I'm the owner of a business called Salvage Works in North Portland. I'm the owner of a business called Salvage Works in North Portland.
 I also sat on the deconstruction advisory group. Salvage Works has been in operation for five years, started with just myself, $10,000 and a forklift. We now have nine employees. Our sales have increased 100% every year. And a little background, basically I am a lumberyard. Every stick of wood in my place is reclaimed.
 mostly from houses in the Portland area. I'm not a deconstruction contractor. We have a shop where we make furniture and fixtures. So I would like to touch on something that hasn't really been discussed here. I'm going to read you a list of businesses. The Sentinel Hotel, Olympic Provisions, the Ace Hotel, Clyde Common, the Hilton, downtown Portland, Ned Ludd,
 Rejuvenation, Killer Burger, Water Avenue Coffee, Bollywood Theater, Danner Boots, Whole Foods, New Seasons, U.S. Forest Service Downtown, Pad Thai, The Meadow, Salt and Straw, and way too many brewpubs to list. These have a couple of things in common. One is that they're all in Portland.
 And they are contributors, a small contribution because there are so many more, to the Portland brand. The whole world, the whole country looks to Portland for a number of things. Our food scene, our cocktail and beer scene, our design sensibility, and the sustainability of the city. The other thing that they have in common is that when they built those places, the aesthetic was reclaimed wood. It is...
 a main component of almost every single new build in this city. And we are building more and more. Large developments are happening. Mixed use retail down below. It is something that we're going to see more and more of. You know, reclaimed material is a beautiful material. It's an aesthetic. And it's very, very popular. Really, you know, the world comes to Portland because of Portland.
 You may or may not know this, but we're big in Japan. We're big in Europe. We're big in Australia. We're big in Brazil.
 Really, the whole world looks to us. By the way, one of the ways we know that is the single best travel guide I've ever seen about Portland is the Japanese guide. Yes. And, in fact, it's been so successful here that they're about to translate it into English so they can use it domestically as a travel guide. Right. And Korean. Yeah. There's now a Korean edition. Right. Chinese next, I think. Yeah. I have a friend who is working on a project called,
 called Ride the Yellow, which is to promote the yellow line and the businesses along the yellow line. And a number of them, which is the Rebuilding Center, Salvage Works, a place called Beam and Anchor, is part of that Portland design brand. And all of that is reclaimed. Okay.
 You know, it's a brand that is being exported, and reclaimed materials are being exported. You know, we do work in the Bay Area, in California, in Seattle. We ship materials around the country. And so what it is is it's a product, and it's a growing, growing business. So I really believe that this program works.
 will help build the capacity for deconstruction contractors. And I do believe that the timeframe proposed is necessary to really help the industry grow. So, and I believe that those incentives should go to deconstruction contractors, to training, but also possibly to help them build their capacity a bit, buy some equipment, that sort of thing. Because really,
 Once the cost of a deconstruction becomes the same as the cost of a demolition, everyone's work is done. It will be the given.
 So thank you all very much for this opportunity. Thank you. Thanks very much for coming. You bet. Thanks. Thank you. Brandon, welcome. Mayor Hales, commissioners, my name is Brandon Spencer-Hardell. I'm here today representing Restore Oregon. I've had the opportunity to speak with you more in the last three months and the last ten years combined, so it's been good. Today I served on the deconstruction advisory group, so I'm here to talk about that experience.
 I'm here today to support the resolution in front of you regarding establishing a framework for increasing the percentage of demolished materials that are salvaged for reuse. I've appreciated the fast paced conversations that arrived at today's proposal, in no small part thanks to Sean Wood at BPS.
 I ask that the council consider exploring a pragmatic program that would phase in disincentives as well to traditional demolition. Because only a minimal amount of funding will be available for the proposed incentive program, if we want to substantially increase the amount of waste diverted from the landfill, I personally believe it will be necessary to implement additional programs that dissuade property owners from choosing the path of mechanical demolition.
 Demolitions generally, and mechanical demolitions specifically, have external costs. One of those costs is the loss of embodied energy when materials are sent to the landfill. For example, Portland's typical demolished house is 1,200 square feet and generates 115 pounds of demolition waste per square feet. That's about 138,000 pounds of waste per house.
 In terms of weight, landfilling the 350 houses that applied for demolition permits over the last year is the equivalent of 438 million aluminum cans, 33 million glass beer bottles, or 1.5 billion pieces of copy paper.
 In order to best manage the waste stream generated by our city's recent increase in demolitions, I ask that you help foster deconstruction by phasing in disincentives to pair with the incentive proposal. A thoughtfully designed and gradually implemented landfill tax on the demolition of buildings that could otherwise be reused or salvage, would allow Portland to recoup some of the external cost of demolition and direct the marketplace towards deconstruction and salvage.
 I want to close by saying that I very much appreciate Council's recent attention to the issues of neighborhood change. You've made tremendous strides in the past few months to address many of the concerns that historic preservationists and neighborhood advocates have brought before you. I'll close by just saying that I hope that you support the resolution in front of you, and I hope you look at it as one more step in the multi-step process of addressing Portland's growing pains right now, and that you consider a next step after today of looking at disincentives to mechanical demolition. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you all. Questions for these folks? Thank you. Thank you all very much. That's all who signed up. Okay. I want to get staff to come back up. I've got some questions, and other council members might have questions as well.
 Certainly heard some interest in moving faster here, which, frankly, I'm pretty sympathetic to. So I want to hear council reactions to that. Also want to let people know that I've already started asking staff to prepare some policy options for council on the subject of disincentives for traditional housing.
 traditional demolition, so I appreciate Brandon bringing that up. That is a logical next step so that we try to change that equation as well. So we want people, when they absolutely positively must have to demolish a structure, to do so through deconstruction, but
 but we also want to reduce the number of structures that are subject to that and raise the cost in terms of penalties for deconstructing or demolishing a structure that has value. So I'm very interested in that piece of the equation as well, and I think that's a logical next step. But what do you think about the suggestion maybe that we come back more quickly than a year from now, give us some reactions to what you heard in terms of testimony here about that,
 How can we go a little faster, even if we stick, at least in the short term, with the incentive approach? When is the logical break point where we say, you know, okay, as we just did with commercial building energy use, now you have to do it. We've been through that cycle on that issue. So, Michael, your thoughts about that might be particularly relevant, given that you were the architect of that transition. Sure.
 say more. I think there's certainly a parallel. And I think you heard through the testimony, there's a lot of agreement about direction. The question is how far, how fast. And, you know, again, from the testimony,
 the deconstruction advisory group discussed exactly this question and there was strong consensus to move forward quickly with a pilot mixed opinions about whether and how soon to make that mandatory and so that's what led us to the recommendation in front of you um i i'll defer to sean i i think it's it's certainly possible that we could come back sooner with a
 report on how it's going and options for you to consider at that time. We'll have a little bit less information to work with because we won't have had the program in place for as long. And
 Yeah. So I would echo that and echo what Shane said earlier. So, you know, the question was posed how quickly could the deconstruction industry adapt to a quicker timeline? You could do it, but with growing pains. And so I think, you know, maybe some clogged ears would probably happen. But
 And then, again, with what Michael mentioned in terms of the pilot would just be less informative. We would have kind of just gotten off the ground with it, so its ability to inform what those recommendations are for next steps will be somewhat limited.
 So it's a dumb question on my part. I should know the answer to this kind of question before I ask it. But is there a rhythm? I mean, obviously there is to construction. Is there a rhythm over the course of the year in terms of if we have about, on average, a demolition a day,
 Is the peak in the summer? Exactly. So we would miss that kind of peak construction window. But if we're talking about $50,000 of money to use as incentives and we're seeing 20 projects a year, even the ones that happen on the kind of the off seasons are still going to be available.
 to take advantage of an incentive. So we'd still have some, but the majority would probably occur more in the late spring, summer. Eric, can I follow up on that for a second? Please, yeah. I was intrigued, although not persuaded, by an argument someone raised. I want to give you a chance to respond. And that is that in crafting an incentive plan where we create an incentive plan
 for folks to use deconstruction, we are actually creating an incentive, further incentive for demolitions and altering in some way the market. I'm not persuaded just at face value with that, but I want to give you a chance to respond. I'll take a chance. Staff or the person that mentioned it? We'll offer action. I'm more interested in your opinion than predicting their opinion.
 I would say that the decision to demolish a structure and build a new structure is made well before any consideration of how the building is going to come down. And so in the grand scheme of the budget for a new house and looking at clearing the site with an existing house, that difference in cost, any kind of incentive that we're going to be providing,
 I don't believe would push the needle towards having someone decide whether or not they want to demolish a building and build a new house. And I'd add there, as a couple of the folks noted, the initial cost to deconstruct is higher than to demolish. We want more construction.
 developers, contractors to get accustomed to seeing the value proposition there. And so the incentives are to get them to try it. We think the net cost, especially as the industry matures, is going to come down, and hopefully we wipe out that premium. But it is there for sure as a perception and in some cases as a reality.
 I'm also curious, you know, we have different approaches to incentivizing behavior that we talk about at this body. We have, for example, waived system development fee charges on accessory dwelling units or certain fees on accessory dwelling units as a way of getting people to both do them within a legal framework and to reduce the regulatory burden.
 What are other examples where we've offered a financial inducement rather than removed a barrier? So we have a pretty long history in terms of energy efficiency and also in the early days of getting the green building sector off the ground of providing grants. I think Commissioner Saltzman certainly recalls the Green Investment Fund where we're helping an industry that's emerging broaden and bring new firms, new kinds of projects to the –
 to do those practices, I think there's a pretty strong parallel here. And we saw a lot of success. You know, a lot of the Portland's
 list of LEED-certified, LEED-platinum projects is incredibly long. Because the industry figured out a way to provide that and have it be competitive in the marketplace, some incentives early on helped get us there. So you have a toolkit that includes carrots and sticks, but you have a history of using the sort of carrots as a way of building a broader foundation of support for the changes that you're trying to get built into the system? No, I think that's a fair assessment. Thank you.
 If some of the effort is going to go into incentives to actually do deconstruction, and if some of the effort is going to go into training and capacity building, obviously the training and capacity building can start right away, right? So you're not dependent on a project coming along that's willing to take the incentive and do something different in order to train people. So those are a little bit severable in terms of...
 when things can start to make a difference, if I understand the program correctly. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. So there is funding for that capacity building and education part as well as the incentive to the developers? Correct. And I noticed that Metro is talking about a more regional approach. What might they be doing in terms of incentives versus requirements versus education and support?
 So BPS staff works really closely with Metro staff on the subject of deconstruction as well as actually accessory dwelling units. And I've spoken with Metro staff about the possibility of providing additional funds for this pilot program. And I think the beauty of that is that we get to take the work that we've done within the city and –
 share the love with other jurisdictions. So in addition to the direct members that were on the advisory group, we had interest from both Clackamas County and Washington County, as well as folks from the Seattle Puget Sound area. So if we were to take a regional approach to this,
 Contractors don't necessarily work just in the city of Portland. They work in other boundaries as well. So a regional approach to this is just going to be that much more successful. And how much longer does it take to deconstruct versus demolish?
 It's really going to depend on a lot of factors, but if you were to try and average it down, you know, demolition takes one to two days. A deconstruction could take five to ten days. It's really going to depend on site access. There's issues like slope where putting a piece of machinery on a steep site may be very difficult or even impossible, in which case a deconstruction project is going to be a favorable one in terms of the time and probably the cost. Okay.
 But presumably after you've demolished, there's a certain amount for cleanup as well as was referenced with all the dust and other debris lying around. So I'm sorry, I'm not following the question. Well, does the one to two days for the demolition, does that include cleaning up the site thereafter? So pretty much immediately they'll start prepping the site for new construction. So they'll fill in the basement if that needs to happen and then also remove the foundation. Okay.
 So it's a pretty quick process when you're talking about demolition. The deconstruction is still going to require an excavator to come in and pull out a foundation and backfill. I can attest to that. The bungalow next to my house that was demolished, I would be surprised if it took two days. Yeah. I mean, it can be done in a number of hours. There's videos out there that show it coming down pretty quick.
 Well, I hear a strong community interest, and I share it in trying to move faster on some elements of this. I guess I would like to suggest that we amend the resolution to have you come back in January with a report and next steps, even if we haven't been through a full...
 construction cycle on seeing how incentives are working because again there's some other policy tools that may be coming forward, will be coming forward for the council to consider and that may be adopted and and I
 I think I hear in the community a really strong and fervent interest in us moving quickly on this, and the pace of change and the pace of demolition that's going with that change is worrisome to a lot of people, including us. So I'd be interested in proposing that we amend the last line of the resolution instead of September 2016 to come back and report to us on changes.
 on program status and next steps in January of 2016. Second. Okay, we've got a second to that motion. So any further discussion of that amendment? So let's act on that amendment and see if there's any other changes that council wants to make to the resolution. Roll call on accepting that amendment.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I appreciate the amendment, Mayor, and also the testimony that does give the industry six months and maybe some more $50,000 money can be put into capacity building because I intend to signal my intent to try to go further faster. I appreciate the amendment. Aye. Hayles? Aye. Any other revisions or recommendations from Council before we act on the resolution in front of us?
 Okay, then let's take a roll call vote on the resolution. Fish? Thanks to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for bringing this forward. Mayor, thank you for your deep concern on this issue. We've been talking about growing pains, and I live in a neighborhood that's going through some growing pains, sort of Grant Park, Beaumont, Wilshire, Hollywood area, and there's a lot happening at the same time. It's impacting quality of life, traffic, noise, traffic.
 demolitions. In my neighborhood, apparently, it's now generally the view of anybody on a two- or four-wheel vehicle that a stop sign is optional. But there's other things going on, and it's having an impact. And
 Once upon a time we made a bargain that we would focus density in places where we could absorb it and we would try to preserve the kind of character of some of our particularly traditional R5 neighborhoods. It's a balance and we're in the process of trying to strike the right balance.
 We have an urban growth boundary. We're required to accept density, and we understand that. But we're looking at ways of doing it that also doesn't unduly infringe on people's quality of life. So I think this has been a good discussion. I've heard some very good ideas. I think we're raising the public awareness about a lot of these issues, which is part of the essential process.
 I like the phase-in of starting with carrots before you get to sticks. And as a practical matter, it's always better if you can get buy-in and get people to participate because you get a higher compliance rate and you get a more thoughtful compliance rate. We don't want people deconstructing these homes in such a way that my friends at the Rebuilding Center can't find anything in what's been deconstructed that has a market value because it was done in a shoddy way or not a thoughtful way.
 So I appreciate this conversation and I appreciate the Mayor's amendment and I'll vote aye. Saltzman? Well, thank you, Mayor and Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for bringing forward this pilot. I think it's something that I look forward to being very successful. And there's so much about deconstruction that makes sense to me. And I think to us from a collective point of view in terms of creating more jobs, creating fewer risk to public health and the environment in the process.
 And so I just think it's a very good thing, and hopefully the industry will take advantage of these incentives, and we'll see it grow more widespread. Hi. Novi. Quite frequently when people in our neighborhoods come to us with concerns about what's happening in their neighborhoods, I'm sympathetic to the concerns, but I have to say that my sympathy is tempered with concerns about climate disruption and carbon emissions.
 For example, when people come and say, I don't like this apartment building without parking going up in my neighborhood, I can understand the disruption that that causes. But on the other hand, people in apartments use less carbon than people who live in houses. And when we have outperforming...
 a collection of people living in a smaller space, then a grocery store springs up and people are able to walk to the grocery store instead of drive. And if we require parking with every apartment, then we're in effect encouraging people to drive and emit more carbon. So that doesn't mean we can't figure out ways to address the concerns, but there's this constant balancing act with carbon emissions.
 So it's actually very nice to have people in our neighborhoods coming with concerns about something happening in their neighborhoods where one of the arguments for their proposal is it will reduce carbon emissions. And according to BPS, deconstruction as opposed to demolition takes the equivalent of two cars off the road for a year for each house.
 So that's one major reason why I'm particularly sympathetic to this suggestion and really appreciative of the mayor's efforts and BPS's efforts and all of the community activist efforts. Thank you all. Hi. Ritz.
 I support the approach for many reasons. One, the committee worked very hard to come up with it, thanks to Nancy Thurington from Development Services, as well as to my staff working with Planning and Sustainability, the Mayor's staff, Jackie Dingfelder and others, and indeed your great work, Michael and Sean. It's a good recommendation, and...
 And also it sounds like the capacity is not quite there yet to be able to require that deconstruction rather than demolition. I certainly would like to get there sooner rather than later for the reasons that Commissioner Novick just stated, that it meshes much better with our whole climate action plan and with our values as neighbors to do deconstruction as the normal thing to do in Portland. Okay.
 It's another way that keeping Portland weird is actually keeping Portland a good thing. And to the extent that we can get there quickly, I would like to see that. So thanks very much to the Development Review Advisory Committee and Mary Helen's leadership of it. It's telling that there isn't a storm of opposition. I'm sure that we'll have a robust discussion when we come back with considering mandatory deconstruction. And that's as it should be. I'm sure we can get there. And I very much appreciate the neighbors' response.
 United for Reform, and your constructive approach, no pun intended, to change the way development happens, knowing that development is going to happen. Let's do it in the best way possible. Thank you, Orange. And thank you for your leadership, Mayor, on this. Aye.
 Well, I want to thank the Council for thoughtful discussion. I hope what you hear, those of you who are concerned about this issue, is there's a strong shared interest here and strong shared values that we're trying to express in policy and regulation and incentives.
 and that we hear and share the sense of urgency. I want to thank you, Michael and Sean and Lisa Kane and Jackie Dingfelder and others who worked hard to get this discussion before the council now and more to come. As I mentioned, I'm interested in working on the disincentive and taxation side of this issue as well as on the regulatory end.
 and incentive side of this issue to send an even stronger signal about keeping houses that are worth keeping. I was
 I was talking earlier this morning about one of the things about Portland that we don't necessarily brag about in those tourism books. We might brag about the restaurants. We might brag about the urban growth boundary in the great downtown, and there's sort of an obligatory trip where people come to Portland to study the city. But one thing they sometimes fail to notice is that we've got this mile after mile after mile of great old streets with great old houses.
 And most cities have a few neighborhoods like that, but we've got miles of that. And having worked in cities all over the country in the last 10 years who are trying to revitalize their downtowns the way ours has been, I noticed that, that they might have a few such neighborhoods. And it's such a treasure. And there's a lot of support for that architectural resource and for that way of life.
 that we feel is under attack now with this amazing wave of change that's upon us and I think is only going to get stronger. So I hope what we all hear is there's a lot of agreement about the need to be serious about that and move quickly, and that's why I'm glad we changed the timetable a little bit and obviously going to keep tasking the Bureau and others in our city staff to help us prepare options for us as a community to consider. Thank you.
 This is, I think, again, a great piece of work. I want to thank the Deconstruction Advisory Group. We ask a lot of volunteers in this process, and some people with a lot of walking-around knowledge came together and did good work for us in a hurry. So thank you for doing that.
 It just occurred to me while we were actually having this discussion this afternoon that it was actually 40 years ago this summer that I started helping my father and mom build a house. And it was a house that was built on the ruins of an old stone mill where we actually logged timber on the property and milled the posts and beams that became the structure of the house. But then the floor of the house...
 was a 150-year-old heart pine that had been salvaged out of a factory in Lignum, Virginia. It's three inches thick, milled down to inch-and-a-half thick flooring that we screwed down and pegged at great cost to knees and hands. But the beauty of that old material reused was part of the joy of that house. So if we do this right...
 We do it seldom. We do it in a way that respects the neighborhood around it, and then we reuse the materials in a thoughtful way, and there are people here in this room that do that every day. We appreciate you, and we want you to do a lot more of it. So thank you all for this good work so far. More to come. Aye. Thank you all, and we're recessed until tomorrow at 2. Mayor? Yes. Now we're recessed.