So Nick, are we? Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the June 4th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll, Carla? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome everyone. We're looking forward to this item very much. Would you please read item 573?
 Proclaim June 4, 2015 to be a day of recognition for Reverend Dr. W.G. Hardy Jr. in Portland. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. I'm pleased to welcome the friends and family of Pastor Will Hardy to City Hall. Today we have a unique opportunity to celebrate Pastor Hardy's extensive service to our community and to say thank you.
 And that reminds me, I had the great honor on Tuesday of being at the White House when President Obama said, quote, it is never too late to say thank you, end quote, as he issued the Medal of Honor to Sergeant Henry Johnson, who had been denied that great honor for a century. So to kick off this celebration, let's welcome the Highland Christian Center Choir, led by Director Derek McDuffie. Welcome. Welcome to the Highland Christian Center Choir.
 glory glory to our king glory glory glory to our king
 to our king Glory, glory, glory to our king Glory, glory, glory to our king to the Lamb that was slain to the Lamb that was crucified Glory, glory, glory to our king to our king for our king to the Lamb that was slain for our king Glory,
 You are King. Hey. Hey. Oh. You are King. Hallelujah. Lord, you're worthy. You're so worthy. Hallelujah. Lord, you're worthy. You're so worthy. You're so worthy. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Lord, you're worthy. You're worthy. You're so worthy. You're so worthy. Lord, you're worthy.
 You're so worthy For your righteousness You're so righteous You're omnipotent Omnipotent You're excellent You're excellent Glory to our King
 I am sold out, my mind is made up. I am sold out, I am sold out, I am sold out, I am sold out, I am sold out, I am sold out,
 Who can separate us from the love of Jesus? Not death, not death, no life. Jesus made the price, now that we've come to see. I am sold out, man. I am sold out, man. I'll come through the rain. What?
 But God, he never left my side. He's my comfort through all my pain. I am sold out. I am sold out. I am sold out. I am sold out. I am sold out. I am sold out.
 I am sold out, I am sold out. My heart is fixed, my mind's made up. No room, no vacancies, I'm all filled up. His spirit lives in me and that's the reason I'm sold out. Yeah! My heart is fixed, my mind's made up. No room, no vacancies, I'm all filled up. His spirit lives in me and that's the reason I'm sold out.
 Let's give another warm round of applause to choir director Derek McDuffie, to Leslie Williams, who helped organize this tribute, Leslie, and to the whole choir. Let's give them another round of applause. Thank you.
 So, Mayor and colleagues, as part of this tribute, we have a number of distinguished people from our community that have been invited to come and present to us. And the Mayor has also given me the great honor of reading a proclamation, which is the way we pay respect to people of great accomplishment in our community. So, before I read it, I'd like to invite our first panel to come forward and take a seat at the dais. Former Senator Avel Gordley.
 Dr. T. Allen Bethel, and Dr. Norwood Knight Richardson. Would you please come forward and take a seat at the table? On this great day, the mayor has issued a proclamation, and it's my honor to read it. Whereas after 20 years of training in ministry, Dr. Hardy was named senior pastor of the Highland Christian Center in 1996. And whereas Dr. Hardy formed the nonprofit Highland Haven,
 to serve distressed Portland communities with programs including youth ministries, a 12-step substance abuse recovery program, a prison ministry, homeless shelters and more. And whereas he built a new life for the Highland Christian Center as a community gathering place open to all, and whereas Dr. Hardy's passion for education and serving young people helped the church establish partnerships,
 with Albina Head Start, Multnomah County, the State of Oregon, Portland Public Schools, Concordia University, Portland State University, George Fox University, Self Enhancement, Inc., and so many others. And whereas his support for our community extends beyond his church, including service on the board of the African American Chamber and support and collaboration with Project Clean Slate and Project Second Chance.
 to help thousands of Oregonians restart their lives. And whereas under Dr. Hardy's leadership and guidance, the African American Mental Health Coalition opened the Oregon Health and Science University's A.V.E.L. Gordley Center for Healing, making a real difference in the lives of those suffering from mental illness. And whereas he has been proud to share his powerful messages as a featured speaker across the globe, including in Africa, Italy, and Israel,
 And whereas Dr. Hardy's steadfast servant leadership leaves a lasting legacy that will inspire our community for generations to come, now therefore I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, to hereby proclaim June 4, 2015, to be a day of recognition for the Reverend Dr. W.G. Hardy, Jr. in Portland, and to encourage all residents to observe this day. Mayor, can we suspend the rules and applaud that?
 Senator Gordly, I'm going to acknowledge you first and also publicly thank you and Roy Jay for serving as the host committee for this event and for your passion and for your time in helping make this such a great success. Senator Gordly. Thank you very much, Commissioner Fish, Mayor Hills, Commissioner Novick, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Saltzman. Let it be noted.
 that we are blessed to be gathered here on a day where the corner of church and state intersect with faith and works, merge and become beloved community. We honor and celebrate our beloved servant, Reverend Dr. W.G. Hardy, Jr. We give honor to his mother, Mrs. Anorvia Hardy, and father, the late Reverend W.G. Hardy, Sr.,
 They poured into Pastor Hardy and all of their children a love for God and service to others. We acknowledge with love and deep respect Mrs. Allie Hardy, who has sacrificed with love at her beloved husband's side. We honor the entire Hardy family and the legacy of service and honor. Honor to God that the name Hardy will always represent God.
 in the beloved community of Portland, Oregon. Many of us appreciate Pastor Hardy's intellect and worldview gained through his open heart, love of people, and through his travels and discipline of reading and studying widely. I reflect now on several days in November 2001 when we traveled to New York,
 selected by then-Governor Kitzhaber as part of a delegation from Oregon and the 50 states, selected to help craft a national mental health or behavioral health response in the horrible wake of 9-11. Remarkably and fortunately for all at the conference, Pastor Hardy was the only faith leader invited from the 50 states.
 Pastor Hardy's voice had a profound impact on the national gathering as he informed and reminded the organizers and delegates to include the faith community in all planning and training for first responders. Pastor Hardy led our organ delegation in prayer. As we gathered and wept, holding on to each other,
 near the site where the World Trade Center towers once stood. Before leaving New York, Pastor and I rode the bus and walked through the streets of Harlem. Our destination was the renowned Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. We were thrilled to find letters from the great American writer Langston Hughes on exhibit. Pastor left the Schomburg with two very full shopping bags of books
 that he had carefully selected for his growing collection of black literature to be shared with his children, family, and community. Returning to Portland after that powerful few days journey, Pastor Hardy in his role as chair of the African American Mental Health Commission
 continued his more than decade-long championing of the need for culturally specific mental health services to meet the underserved needs of black people. His sermons challenged the stigma around mental illness and encouraged the treatment and education about mental health. The doors of the church were opened to host meetings, conferences on mental health.
 It was Pastor's leadership and vision and call that led to the affirming partnership with our dear friend Dr. Norwood Knight-Richardson and OHSU. And I know that Dr. Knight-Richardson has more to say about that partnership. For almost 20 years, I have known and worked alongside Pastor Hardy and been privileged to
 privileged to travel with him in delegations with others to the motherland, Africa, and most recently a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. He is a master teacher, a master teacher. Pastor Hardy loves people. He understands how we all desire and need to keep people we love close, how we need to give people access to our heart. Pastor Hardy does that.
 Pastor Hardy loves the Lord and shows that love through his heart. He has a way of using language that speaks to all people and a way of being authentic and transparent about his own life. No matter the setting, he is who he is. He has given us access to his heart. He has carried our burdens. When he asked, can I be myself, as he did last night in Bible study,
 What he shares is real. He is especially gifted at reaching young people because he is honest and his own life experiences are shared. And he listens deeply, deeply and is trusted. Mayor, I'm probably at the three-minute point, and I'm going to take a point of personal privilege if I may. We're suspending the rules. Thank you very much.
 Another travel experience shared in 2007. A Portland State University delegation led by the brilliant scholar and department chair, Dr. Kofi Ogorsa, spent 28 days in Ghana. This was a cultural exchange and trade exploration. Two outstanding memories from that experience in Ghana. Pastor Hardy speaking.
 at a packed church in Kapando Village. Hundreds of people in the church, hundreds more outside, all invited by the village chief and elders to hear pastor preach and teach. And the drums played. Another powerful shared experience. We were closed in a profane cell at a so-called slave castle.
 where the rebellious captives, the rebellious captives were held before being taken away through the door of no return to ships for the slave trade. Dr. Dalton Miller-Jones, Dr. Agorsa, Pastor Hardy, all of us together in this cell. Pastor led us in prayer, and we acknowledged in that hellish place,
 that the spirits of our ancestors were free, and we pledged to work for that which is right, just, and fair for our people. We made that pledge in that place. We acknowledge that because our ancestors were rebellious, we are free. During the Holy Land pilgrimage last year, we witnessed Pastor Hardy read scripture and teach in the Garden of Gethsemane,
 And at the Mount of Olives, all the places in the Bible came alive. We sailed on the Sea of Galilee and experienced life-affirming baptism in the Jordan River. As I stated at the beginning of these remarks, we are gathered today at the corner of church and state and the intersection of faith and works in our beloved community to honor and celebrate greatness,
 And I end this tribute with a selection from Langston Hughes. I Dream a World, he wrote. And this is in tribute to our beloved pastor. I dream a world where man, no other man will scorn, where love will bless the earth and peace its paths adorn. I dream a world where all will know sweet freedom's way.
 Where greed no longer saps the soul, nor avarice blights our day. A world I dream where black or white, whatever race you be, will share the bounties of the earth and every man and woman is free. Where wretchedness will hang its head and joy like a pearl attends the needs of all mankind of such...
 I dream my world. May God continue to bless Pastor Hardy and family and the beloved community that he continues to serve so magnificently. Thank you. Dr. Bethel, welcome to your city hall. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, to Mayor Hales, and to all the other commissioners, and indeed to Reverend Dr. W.D. Hardy, Jr.,
 Thank you for the privilege of being able to come at this auspicious occasion to share just a few remarks about, and on behalf of Dr. Hardy, on behalf of myself and the AMA Albina Ministerial Alliance. Stephen Covey penned these words, I am not a product of my circumstances. I am a product of my decisions.
 And what to say on today, Dr. Hardy, it is not circumstances that have brought you where you are today. Though sometimes circumstances certainly help to influence what we do. But it has been by your decisions, your decisions to be used and to answer the call that God placed upon your life. And perhaps put you on the road, just like when he called Abram, I'll tell you where to go.
 You have followed that road for all of these years and you continue to follow that road. And it is my prayer that God will continue to keep his hands upon you as you move down that road. I have observed in the 20 plus years that I have been here your tremendous trailblazing ability. Not only within the church community, but the community at large.
 And not only in the community at large, but even in the political arena, where sometimes many feel that church should not interfere and state says that you should not interfere, you have found ways to bridge that gap and continue to extend across it so that many others will have an opportunity to indeed participate and live in a better quality of fabric in our communities.
 I have found also over the years that you are dependable. Whenever I have called upon you and you've made a commitment, you have always kept that commitment and done it to the best of your ability. I remember on one occasion when we were transitioning the offices of AMA and called you, it was a day off, and you said, I'll come, but I want you to know I'm not dressed, meaning that I am not in my typical dress.
 ministerial attire, but I'm still willing to come. That's dependability because it is not about how we are clothed on the outside. It is about what is clothed on the inside. I have found also that you have found your niche in ministry.
 And often many people do not find that. And when you find it and you have found it, you have chosen to fill that hole, that niche, like no one else can. Because that one that was carved out for you, no one can fill. It is fitted uniquely for W.G. Hardy Jr. Finally, finally,
 And, of course, when you give a preacher the microphone, Dr. Hardy, we get to close more than one time. So the first closing. The mayor suspended the rules. Your tenacity. Your tenacity and your determination to continue to press on.
 I am reminded of one of the mentors in my life, Reverend Dr. Seth Beverly Sr. At the time when I was going through my bout with cancer, the phone rung one day and I answered from the hospital bed. And he said to me, son, don't waste your sufferings.
 And I began to question him, what is it you mean by don't waste my suffering? I'm going through something. You realize how serious this is. And he says, yes, but don't waste it. Because in this time, there just might be something that God wants to say to you if you don't waste your suffering. I learned not to waste my suffering. I learned to stop complaining because I realized that no one could do anything about it.
 I began to gain more patience because I realized that everything was in God's hands. I began to just completely rely and know that whatever would come would come. And I adopted this mantra. To all of my friends, I said, and I leave these words with you. If by chance I leave here before you think that I should have, I want you to know that I have done everything that I could to stay here as long as I could.
 And Asye Dutde says, healing, my brother, does not mean that the damage never existed. It means the damage no longer controls my life. The damage, Dr. Hardy, does not control your life. You're in the hands of the master, and those are good hands, for he has the plans for you. Thank you, my brother, for the privilege of sharing with you today.
 Dr. Norwood Knight Richardson, welcome. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners. I am very proud to be here to recognize a wonderful human being in the presence of my friend, Dr. Hardy. I was told initially that I had two minutes left.
 And I thought, how can you say something meaningful about someone so large in our lives in two minutes? And then I thought, great truths generally are simple, such as God is love. Two words. Very simple. Simple.
 So I can say some wonderful things, and I will, but I might need two closings, about a man who, when you know him, how simple he is, how straightforward, how wonderful he is, how spiritual he is. The great hero in my life is Arthur Richardson, better known as Deacon Arthur Richardson, my father.
 Second grade education came to God when he fell eight stories off of a building into a concrete ditch and he only broke his little finger. And he said he got up from that ditch after being put on a stretcher and taken to the hospital and he committed himself to God. And he committed himself to God in a way that wasn't boastful. He lived it. He taught it. He taught it to us.
 It was simple and profound. If Deacon Richardson said, the sun nor would it come up in the west, I'd look west. Because that's the man that he was. And Deacon Richardson always said, you'll know a man by his work, by his good works. And by those works will you find him worthy. Worthy of our love. Worthy of our support. Worthy of our friendship. Worthy to be followed.
 Dr. Hardy, you are worthy. Deacon Richardson would have found this man worthy. And I know God finds him worthy. I love this man. I have known religious leaders across the world. Some have been great writers, some great teachers, some great speakers. They were reverends, they were imams. But the ones I most admired are the pastors. Do you know about pastoring, folks?
 It's different from just being a preacher, isn't it? Yeah, it's very different. Reverend Hardy is a pastor. What does a pastor do? He leads his flock. Did I say he pushes his flock? He leads his flock. And sometimes to lead them, he has to be where? Amongst them. And being amongst them, he can see the little ones who are weak, the old ones who are foundering.
 Okay? He can pick the lambs up in his arms and bring them along with the flock, and he's great with children. He can take the older sheep and be patient with them as they graze along and give them dignity. That's Reverend Hardy, a pastor and worthy, worthy of this moment, which as grand as it is, does not tell his whole story. I'm going to end with a story that some of you...
 may not have ever heard about Reverend Hardy, and it's about a pastor. I met him with this mental health commission. I am a psychiatrist and dedicated to the field of psychiatry and the human mind. It's very, very important. And I have talked to a lot of corporate people, indeed a lot of religious people, about the importance of brain health in our overall quality of health. And many were kind of interested.
 Many looked at me like a heifer looking at a new gate and wondering what was I talking about that that could be applied to our everyday lives. But Will got it. He understood it, all right, to the point that he opened up his church and said, let's have some meetings. And I said, well, Reverend Hardy, one of the problems I believe we have is we don't have the vocabulary to talk about mental health.
 We can talk about our kidneys, we can talk about our heart, we can talk about our eyes and ears and other parts that my grandmother would blush at right now. That's what we talk about on the TV, alright?
 But we don't know how to talk about the brain. And I said, I want to give a series of lectures called Human Brain Anatomy and Physiology. Now, all of you know that I'm a professor at OHSU, and that might sound good up there, but what in the world are you going to do talking about that in the community? I said, well, I just want to get people to be able to talk about the brain. Reverend Pastor Hardy got it.
 jumped on board and said, okay, I'm going to spend my time, my money, and we are going to have these lectures. He didn't send people out to do it. Will organized those things himself. He came, and we had people come, and we had a great time talking about brain physiology and anatomy. And members of our, leaders of our government, if you ever want to hear that lecture, I'd be happy to come to council. But, yeah.
 What he understood, and because he is a shepherd amongst the sheep and not pushing, he understood that this was important, and he led it. And another thing that we haven't said here or we have said about on the edges of, I think one of the greatest attributes that a human being in leadership can have is that of humility. He is a humble, worthy man.
 He is a humble, worthy man. And we are blessed in this city, in this state. Indeed, I would say the world has been blessed to have such as he amongst us. Thank you so much for this opportunity to be here and talk about a great man. Thank you all. It's now my honor to welcome our second panel forward, two dear friends of Pastor Hardy. Would former State Senator Jason Atkinson please come forward?
 And would Ronnie Herndon, Director of Albina Head Start, please come forward? No, sir. Senator? Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for the invitation. Two people in my life that I care very much about were just on the previous panel, which is how I came to know my friend, Pastor Hardy. We met, if you can believe it, over...
 African American mental health services. And it was a time about a decade ago when pettiness, political pettiness, was trumping political principle. And I was asked if I would help. Now, if Avel, Senator Gordley, or Dr. Knight Richardson ask for your help, you do what Avel tells us to do. Laughter
 And I met Pastor Hardy, and I walked into Avel's office. He stood up. He wouldn't shake my hand. He insisted on a hug. I looked down. He was wearing black cowboy boots. And I said, I like you. We're here, though, as friends of Pastor Hardy, to celebrate and thank him for his contribution to our city, for his contribution to his flock,
 to the greater faith community in our state. Many of us who have had the privilege to work with him are here to thank him for his service to young boys that don't have fathers, to the poorest among us, to the Oregonians who are forgotten and suffer with mental health issues. But as I was thinking today, getting ready for this, I thought I would be facing him and not all of you. So I'm going to face you, but I'm going to talk to him.
 If we are here to celebrate the man, Pastor Hardy, we are running a danger of making a huge mistake. We should not be here celebrating a man. We are here to celebrate who is inside that man. And when you look at Pastor Hardy, you have to ask yourself, where does a man like that get the fortitude to serve people who will never say thank you?
 Where do you get the staying power to serve people who are suffering with mental health issues? Where does somebody have the bravery to sit in a jail cell in Birmingham, Alabama, be abandoned by everyone else, but still fight for the right thing? How does a man among us who Dr. Knight Richardson just said was worthy, what gives him that strength? That's what we're here to celebrate. So when you look at Dr. Hardy, as I look at Pastor Hardy,
 Pastor Hardy, many years ago, had an interruption in his life. And he met someone by the name of Jesus. And everything else has been different since then. When you look at Dr. Hardy, you're looking at somebody who's reflecting someone. So you ask yourself, was he trained by politics to do that? No. Was he trained by an incentive in the capital market to do what he does? No, of course not.
 I was thinking today, and I will finish with this, and it will only be one closing, because I may be a preacher's son twice over, but I know my place. If all of us go home today and we say, that was nice, that was a nice event, that would be a crime. If we left this gathering and this assembly happy,
 With warm feelings, it would be a missed opportunity. It might even be a missed divine opportunity. I would leave you with two words. And if you don't know what those two words mean when this is over, you should go talk to Pastor Hardy. The two words are this, know him. Know him. Then you'll know why we're celebrating the man inside, Pastor Hardy. Ronnie Herndon, welcome to City Hall. Welcome, commissioners, mayor, staff.
 I've been at this dais a few times, but this is probably the most enjoyable time that I've ever been here. So, Reverend, thank you very much. Appreciate it. And it is really an honor for me to be here and say a few words about Reverend Hardy. I don't think it's often that people find themselves
 around a living legacy. Most legacies are talked about when people are no longer here, but we in Portland have been so fortunate to be in the presence of a living legacy. And Reverend Hardy, if we haven't said it sooner, it's only because we didn't want to spoil you in your youth. A few stories about Reverend Hardy.
 I work with Head Start. We have several different sites. One morning I get a phone call from Reverend Hardy. He said, Ron, your building, there's a fire behind one of your buildings. It was true. Some kids have been playing around with, I guess, cigarettes and set some sawdust on fire and caught the trees on fire. And he also called the fire department. And were it not for him, the building would have burnt down because as it was, it was scorched.
 And I thought to myself, and I said to him, I said, Reverend, you're always trying to keep people away from that fire. Thank you, Jesus. Didn't have to do it. He could have just called the fire department. And a few years later, I said to him, we need, we are fortunate enough to get some additional money to serve more children. We need space. Could we use your site? He said, sure. Sure.
 And it wasn't one of these begrudging sures. It was whatever you need, as others have said, whatever I can do. And then I'd go back to him and say, Reverend, we need the...
 take a few more spaces out of your parking lot so we can expand the playground for the — oh, go ahead, Ron, whatever you want. It was always whatever you need, as someone else said, to serve children, to serve those who don't have a voice, to serve those that are frequently marginalized, to serve those that people think don't mean a lot. And Reverend, those children
 None of us know where they'll end up, but I'll tell you where some of them are now that have been through Head Start. The gentleman who now heads the Ford Foundation gives credit to his position there to Head Start. That's where he started. The gentleman who heads up the NAACP, same thing, National NAACP, Head Start. So those children that you have made a place for,
 They will probably end up in places that none of us can imagine, but it will be because that you gave them an opportunity, not once, not twice, but over and over and over again. And like my colleague here, I think I can count to three, and there won't be no three closings here. So lastly, I've heard it said, and you certainly do epitomize this, in a person's life,
 A sermon lived is much better than a sermon given. So thank you very, very much. Thank you. I'd like to welcome two new guests to the dais. Kerry Timchuk, Executive Director of the Oregon Historical Society, and Michael Alexander, the former President and CEO of the Urban League. Gentlemen. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fisk, Mr. Mayor, other members of the council. All this talk with Dave Vell here and the talk about mental health, I want to begin a personal point of privilege here. A few years back, the NAMI, the National Alliance on Mental Illness in Oregon, created the Gordon and Sharon Smith Award in honor of my former boss, Senator Smith, and his wife, Sharon, for all they did to make mental health and suicide prevention a national cause after they lost their son.
 And each and every year, NAMI gives the award to deserving Oregonians who are in the front lines of the fight on mental health. Senator Gordley, as you might have expected, was one of the early winners. And Senator Smith and Sharon and the committee just announced, or haven't publicly announced yet, but I'll do it here, that the 2015 recipients of the Gordon and Sharon Smith Award for Oregon NAMI, one is Max Williams, now head of the Oregon Community Foundation, for all the work he did on mental health while he was head of the state prisons.
 And the other recipients are Commissioner Amanda Fritz and her late husband Steve. Will be recipients this year of the Golden Ferns Creek Awards. One of the most eloquent and charismatic individuals in Oregon history, former Governor Tom McCall, once said, heroes are not giant statues framed against a red sky. They are individuals who say, this is my community and it's my responsibility to make it better.
 It is my honor today to join with so many others in expressing admiration of another of the most eloquent and charismatic individuals in Oregon history, a man who is indeed a true hero, because few individuals have given more of themselves to make the community of Portland a better place in which to live, work, and raise a family than Dr. Hardy.
 Ever since the days of the Oregon Trail, when pioneers would gather from miles around to participate in barn raisings, the tradition of neighbor helping neighbor has been part of the Oregon story. That tradition, that story, that history is alive and well nearly two centuries later, precisely because of individuals like Dr. Hardy. In the congregation of Highland Christian Center, he has led with such intelligence, inspiration, and integrity.
 Some of you may not know that for the past several years and for many years to come into the future, Dr. Hardy is a daily presence at the Oregon Historical Society. Our Oregon Voices exhibit, as Dr. Hardy knows, includes a section on the history of Portland's Albina District. And in the video that accompanies the exhibit is an interview with Dr. Hardy, filmed while he's seated in a barber chair getting a haircut.
 Now, I confess, I go by fairly often to watch that video. One, because it's good for me to remember when I had to get a haircut. And two, just to hear Dr. Hardy's voice and to hear his words and his inspiration as he talks about the difference that he has made in Portland and the changes that he has seen in Portland. You know, one of the highlights of my life and career has been my association with another former boss of mine, former cabinet member, former president of the American Red Cross, former United States Senator Elizabeth Dole.
 Through Mrs. Dole, who was born and raised in Salisbury, North Carolina, I became familiar with the story of Dr. Joseph Charles Price, the founder and president of Livingstone College, a historically black college located in Salisbury, North Carolina. I bring this up because I have been struck by the similarities between Dr. Hardy and Dr. Price, who was born nearly two centuries ago.
 Dr. Price was described as, and I quote, a brilliant scholar, a great gospel preacher, an eloquent orator, an advocate for the common man, and a shining example of selflessness and devotion to his people. Words that accurately describe Dr. Hardy. It was also said of Dr. Price that, quote, he sought to educate the whole man, his hands, his head, and his heart, and that he attracted people through the sheer power of his personality and Christian compassion. Sound like anyone you know? No.
 Dr. Price's great faith and hope for the future were epitomized in a famous quotation that is one of Mrs. Dole's favorites. Dr. Price said, I do not care how dark the night, I believe in the coming of morning. All of us here have joined in extending our thoughts and prayers to Dr. Hardy and the challenges he has faced. And all of us have had our spirits lifted by Dr. Hardy's unshakable belief that no matter how dark the night, a glorious morning will be coming tomorrow.
 I think today of the words of the Greek poet Sophocles, who once said, One must wait until the evening to see how splendid the day has been. Like everyone here, I hope there are many, many, many, countless more evenings in Dr. Hardy's life. But I also know that he can look back at a life filled with faith, a life filled with family, a life filled with being a hero by making Portland a better place,
 And he can say without reservation that the day has indeed been splendid. Thank you, Dr. Hardy, for changing Portland's history and Oregon's history. Michael Alexander, welcome back. Thank you for having me. Good afternoon, Commissioner Fish, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Saltzman, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioner Novick. I'm very honored and privileged to have the opportunity to join so many others here.
 in offering our appreciation for the impact that Reverend Hardy has had on this community and this city. When I got the memo, I read two minutes literally. So I wanted to find words that would bring the right sentiment and the right sense of my heart to my time today. And I chose a reading from The Prophet by Kahlil Gibran. It reads...
 There are those who give little of the much which they have, and they give it for recognition, and their hidden desire makes their gifts unwholesome. And then there are those who have little and give it all. They are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty. Through the hands of such as these, God speaks, and from behind their eyes he smiles upon the earth."
 I thought of those words and I thought of the experience that I have had in working with Pastor Hardy. I would say that whenever I was in a room with him, I know that I was doing the right work and it was the right group of people to be working with. And I would measure my effectiveness by how often our paths could cross and they could never cross enough. But as I came to today...
 I also decided to look in a Latin dictionary for a phrase that I had heard in the past, and it was called in media rep. And that's a Latin term that roughly translates to mean in the middle of things. And it's with that sentiment that I offer my hope and my prayer that the gratitude and the appreciation that we are extending to Pastor Hardy
 And his family, on behalf of this community and this city, indeed is positioned in the middle of things in terms of his life's journey. We have been blessed to have him share his gifts so selfishly with the deserving, and in many instances, those who will never know the fingerprints that he has placed on their lives.
 but because of it, our children and our grandchildren will have a pathway to life and fulfillment that they would never have otherwise. And it has been a privilege to be in his space and in his presence. And I thank you for the opportunity to offer those comments today. We're going to invite a fourth and final panel to come forward. Then we'll hear from Pastor Hardy and his beloved partner in life,
 and then we'll close with comments from the council. Would Elder Curtis Miller of the Highland Christian Center please come forward, Carmen Hardy, Pastor Hardy's sister, and Roy Jay, President of Roy Jay Enterprises. Would you like to go first? Sure. Thank you. Respect to the mayor, to the president of the commissioners, and the panel of commissioners.
 I'm here today, honored and elated to speak on behalf of the family regarding my brother, Pastor Hardy. I'm going to share more of a personal aspect of him. When I think of him...
 I remember being kids and growing up. There were six of us. I don't know how many of you went on field trips as a child. When you go on field trips, you have to pair up. You get your buddy and you hold hands as you go to the park or the zoo or the fish hatchery or whatever. Well, the six of us, we were the two oldest, and he was my traveling buddy. Then there was the two middle ones and the two younger ones.
 And I was the only girl, the others boys. And as many of you know, boys can be mischievous and can get into trouble sometimes. Well, you know the trouble they can get into, multiply that by five. So we were in trouble a lot. And back in the day when spankings were considered profitable and effective,
 Remembering one day when we had a real good profitable spanking. As we sat on the end of the bed, all six of us, drying our tears, I heard him say, let's go thank dad. Immediately our tears disappeared. Do what? Let's go thank dad. For what? He said, for the spanking. He's a true visionary. Right?
 and with his persuasive communication we found ourselves standing in front of dad saying thank you. Little did we know that his gift of vision to be able to see things from a different perspective to be able to see things from afar that one day we would grow up and as adults of a deceased father to be able to look at the news
 and see the crime and the violence, to see the statistics of those who have been incarcerated and overdosed on drugs, and not be able to go to dad and say thanks, that visionary had us do it ahead of time. As life went on, we were separated by the military. He went to the Navy. I did the Air Force. I did the Air Force.
 Then he came back and we raised our families, got married, raised families. And now coming back again as adults with my traveling buddy, I'm able to see that over the years his vision did not diminish, but it increased. And not only did it increase, but it became more acute. And he was a visionary not just for his family, but for the church, for the community.
 For the city, the state, and even the world. I respect him for it. The visionary that he is. And if I can share one little small story. A couple of weeks ago, me and my traveling buddy went to get the car washed. And this big guy came out. And I mean he was big. And he gave my traveling buddy a big bear hug that he felt great.
 And with tears in his eyes, he said, thank you so much for saving my life. Then he proceeded to tell a story, his testimony. He said, I have been in the penitentiary for several years. And when I came out, I couldn't find a job. I didn't fit anywhere. And I figured my life is not worth living. So I decided to kill myself.
 Then he proceeded to tell us how he ran into Pastor and how he said, well, hey, come talk to me. Let's sit down and talk. He opens up his heart to everybody, no matter how small or how old. And so this gentleman was telling us how every Thursday he would go for several weeks to talk to my traveling buddy. And all the time figuring out how he was going to commit suicide.
 But each time he would meet, he would push it out further and further another week. And then finally he came up with a strategy of how to do it. He decided, I'm going to rob a bank, and then I'm going to run and run and run and allow the officers, the police, to take my life. And he went and he met with my traveling buddy with his idea in his mind. And in that meeting...
 My brother said, let me see your hands. And he looked at his hands and he said, those are blessed hands. He said, those hands are going to bring you work. That was the visionary. And so by this time, my brother and I, we have tears falling down our eyes because he said, look, now I have my own business. Because my hands indeed bought me work. He said, and I strategically...
 placed that business right across the street from the bank that I was going to rob so that I could remember where I came from. And again, he thanked him for saving his life. And I would like to say to my brother, I honor you as a visionary. I appreciate you as my traveling buddy. And I love you as my brother.
 Elder Curtis Miller welcome. Yes. Thank you. Let me first say to the mayor and to all the commissioners and especially you Commissioner fish I want to thank you for taking the time out of your busy schedules to honor such a great man like Pastor Harding Pastor Hardy is More than just a great man. He's a man of God when I received like others when I see my email said only two minutes and
 Well, those that highly know two minutes is kind of impossible for me. But the one thing I have to say, though, and give you an honor to my pastor, the one thing that he teaches, in order for you to be in leadership, you must be under leadership. And the thing with that is, is this. That means that in order for you, before you can tell someone what to do, you must learn how to do what you're told. So I'm going to honor the two minutes, the three minutes. And if I do go over just a minute or two, please forgive me. But.
 The question I ask God before I come here, what can I say? Because this man is so great. He's done so many great things. And in two minutes, I can't do it. But the one thing that God showed me was this. I'm going to have those that's going to speak before you.
 Every person that spoke before me is things that, you know, I can say that is true and things that we know that this great man have done. And I say to each one of them, thank you, because Pastor Hardy have touched all of our lives, you know.
 I've been in Pastor Hardy Life about 17 years. I'm not originally from Portland. I come from Indiana, from the city here, Indiana. But I never will forget, and I'll tell this quick story, and then I'll pass the mic on. He was invited to a church in Gresham, and that's where I was going when I first came here, to Gresham, to East Hill. And the pastor was asked to speak, and he brought the choir. He had about eight people with him, you know. They sung great, and he preached great. He's a preacher.
 Amen. He is a preacher. And at the end of his sermon, the one thing he asked, he asked the pastor, he said, I'm not here to take any members. He says, but you know what? I've got a little church, and it was on 18th and Alberta, and it was a theater. He says, I'm converting it to a church, and I need, if there are any men here that know how to do any plumbing and any kind of electrical work, if you would please come over and help, I appreciate it.
 And that was the call that he made for me to be a part of Highland. Wasn't planning on going to be a part of Highland, but planned to go and help at Highland. Because being a man that was raised by a man of God, 10 children, we were always raised to help others. I never will forget, I went to Highland, I went to Highland, I left.
 First, when I looked at the outside, I said, wow, what is this? Then when I went in Highland, that was a bigger wow, because it was a theater. I mean, seats, raggedy seats, and then the ceiling was leaking and stuff. But you know what? The one thing I love about him, though, is he had a vision. And the vision wasn't from man. It was from God. What I saw him do was completely turn that old theater into a house of God.
 In that house of God, there were people saved, not just two or three hundred, but thousands of people. The next greatest thing he'd done is when him and God talking again, he had this vision to go to 76 in Gleason, the old new beginnings, you know. Now, being with him at that time, I joined the church and I was a part of the board. And there were some board members that just didn't see him doing this. But you know what? Not one time did he change.
 Don't disrespect or tell anyone, I don't care what you say, I'm going to do this. You know, he followed God's calling. And that was when Roy J., I got a chance to meet this Roy J. that so many people talk about. I mean, God gave him great people, put great people in his life to make it happen.
 And at 76 and Gleason, Highland Christian Center, let me be the first to tell you, there are great things going on there. A $6 million campus. He didn't have the money. We didn't have the money. No one was going to get it from him. But you know what? God answered that call. And then not only that, there at Highland today, those now, every Sunday he's feeding the hungry.
 People that don't belong to Highland, people that comes in and they're getting fed every Sunday. Not only is he feeding the hungry, but the blessing part is in the basement of Highland, there's a school there for children. Not only that, you know what he set up to where he have men and women going out into the prisons to preach to those that are incarcerated. Right.
 Not only that, the thing is, you know, he's here in the city. But you know what? I have to stop for a minute, and I have to ask two special ladies to forgive me because I should have gave them honor. One is his mother, because if it wasn't for her, we'd none of us be here. Mother Hardy, we love you. The second is First Lady, his wife, Sister Allie. Because...
 Let me be the first to tell you, being married 40 years and living in this world and dealing with people, it takes a wife to help you get through the next day. Because I know there's times when he would go home. Now, the answers is not a problem, but when it comes to not having answers, and when it seems like God is not talking to you, there's that wife. And she's the one that's rubbing his head and, honey, it's going to be all right. Keep trusting in God.
 So I thank God for those two women. And I say that to my pastor, you know, he has a lot of titles, doctor, and I mean, he's all of that. But you know what? Like one of the speakers said, he's a pastor. He is a pastor. He's very concerned about his sheep. Each sheep is important to him.
 Just the other day, he had one of his members that was in the hospital that was going through a battle. And it was 9.30 at night. Sister Leslie gave me a call, and she was telling me, you know, Ellen Miller, we've got one of our members in the hospital, and her mother's there, and she hasn't had anything to eat, so we need to get her something to eat. And I said, okay. Now, this is 9.30. I go out to the hospital, and I see you, and run the food up to take to her. And when I get up there, she comes up, but who do I see? I see him.
 Pastor Hardy, you know, he's coming out. You know, and I thank God for this man. I thank God for him because, you know what, he is a man of God. He's a man of God. And the other thing that you have to realize, everywhere that he goes, believe me, it's going to be church. Right?
 Because here we are here, and we had church. We had church. You know. So, you know, and I must be, I must honor the time limit. I just want to say to my pastor, Pastor, I love you. You know what? There's two great men in my life. One is going home to be with the Lord, and the other is you. And the reason why you're so great is because you don't put yourself first. You put other people. You're about God's business and about souls.
 If I get home before you, I'm going to ask the Lord to let me work with you. And if you get there before me, please save a place with me. You're welcome. Thank you. Roy J., welcome. And, Roy, thanks for agreeing to stay within the one-minute limit. That's right. 30-second limit. They've already used up all of my time. You know. Yeah.
 Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for this opportunity for us to come together and, as you've already heard, recognize a great man in our community who's been here for a long time. I'm not going to tell you a whole lot of Pastor Hardy stories. Just watch for my book coming out next week, $9.95 plus shipping and handling, Walking with Pastor Hardy. I have...
 I have known this guy for, I don't know how many years, and I happened to stumble upon Highland. This is a real short story, but it's so true. I was at Highland one Sunday with the late Harold Williams, our chair of our board of our African-American chamber. We came to give some scholarships to some young kids, and we walked into this theater, and as Elder Miller said, it was a converted theater. The seats were broken. Okay.
 the roof was leaking and I'm looking around thinking oh help me baby Jesus you know there's something something going on here but the place was packed and I was going through a transition time in my life I'm trying to find the right church the right message and things of that nature we came and did our little piece and something told me come back next week because I'm thinking that maybe they're just putting on a nice little show because we're the guys with the money we came with the money
 And so without him knowing it, and I've told him this story before, without him knowing it, I actually came back the following Sunday after the services started.
 sat way in the back and just to see you know the message and the message was genuine it was true it was sincere and from there we started to create a kinship but as I was looking around and I think the pastor remembers I came and I'll tell you how bad the furniture was I tore one of my expensive suits on the arm of the chair laughter
 I didn't say anything, but he found out about it. But the roof was leaking and things of that nature, and the church was so broke they couldn't pay attention. That's an old joke, but that's the truth. And so through the grace of God and talking with a particular gentleman, I'm looking at him over on the right side that used to work at Albina Bank, and he was looking at a loan application that was sitting there, and he said, Roy, they don't even have a pot to, you know what. I said, you know what, but see about giving them the money.
 Because I know he's going to do great things. They got it fixed. They got the roof fixed. And then they went on to do other things. And when the pastor told me, he says, now I'm looking at a $6 million church. I'm thinking, well, you don't have a job. You're counting on all these donations. And I'm looking at him and saying, okay.
 Go ahead and do it. You know, nobody's going to say no, but he actually did what everybody else was thinking about doing. He's always been that kind of person. And so I've been on the Pastor Hardy wagon and train and everything else for years and years and years. He's been our partner in Project Clean Slate. And I can't begin to tell you how many people that he has helped.
 It's not just us running the program. It's Pastor Hardy sitting over there working with people, and we've got people doing community service at Highland, and people are changing their lives. And he's never asked them to come join my church. You know, they come and they do their work and so forth like that, but a lot of them come back because they like the message, and they haven't been around a man of God that much that's going to affect them as much as he has. But I'll tell you,
 he has been, when you talk about traveling buddies, and this is a short Roy Pastor Hardy story. One day I called him up and I says, look it, you want to go to Washington, D.C. with me. You remember the story? You certainly did. You certainly did.
 And so I took him to Washington, D.C. I said, you're going to meet a couple of friends of mine, Hillary and Tom Daschle. And so we were there for like three or four days and running around, and he was just having himself a good time, you know, praying on everybody. And so on our way back, we were coming back for some young lady's funeral. And so I showed him.
 how to be able to travel Roy style and how to have people, the airlines actually pay you to travel. And he just couldn't believe it. It was like, just take notes, just take notes, you know. So...
 To this day, you learned, didn't you? You learned real quickly. That's right. Yeah, so we've learned from each other. We have, you know, he has been, you know, I'm sort of like, I told him I'm his shadow most of the time. You know, you don't see me, but I'm there, you know, because he's went through hell and high water. You know, the health challenge is a challenge. It's not a death wish because we all in this room and everybody else has been praying on this.
 As he says, do I have a church in here? We have a church in here. We have a church in here. So he's not checking out anytime soon. I'm just glad to call him my friend. He's been there for me and everybody else, and I thank the council for recognizing him while he's breathing. Like they say, it's better to be seen than viewed.
 And, you know, I won't be viewing him until he's like 100 and 305 years old. Okay. Thank you kindly. God bless you. And I'm going to turn it over to whoever because my one minute is up, isn't it? Roy, would you please escort our honored guest to the table? Yes, I'll be glad to. Okay.
 Pastor Hardy and First Lady Allie Hardy, we'd like to give you the first opportunity to share any reflections you would like to and then we will close the proceeding as is our tradition with comments from the council. So welcome. Well, I'd like to ask my children to stand, all of, I believe, Sean, Jael, Eli, Gail, Daniel and Elena, and Norvia.
 Along with them, I want to say truly thank you to all of you for recognizing my husband and his wonderful works. Thank you. And also to all of the loved ones here and our friends that have come to support this. Thank you very much.
 To the mayor and to other council members, it is an honor and a privilege to be here. And it's very humbling. It's very humbling. I remember back hearing my father share stories. And one of the things I'd hear my father say repeatedly is, why did I come to Portland? Why did I come to Portland? And he later gave background to that. He said that...
 As a traveling evangelist, he was a gang member once, and he said if the Lord would save him at the age 16, he would serve God the rest of his life. He had a switchblade in his pocket. They were about to get into a ruffle down in San Bernardino, California.
 and the Lord got him out of it. And at 16, he began to serve the Lord, and he would go on these huge fasts and pray and ask God for revelation. And then in the summertime, he would take the money he saved up, and Big Mama would pin that to the inside of his pants, and he'd go get a Greyhound bus ticket as far as his money would take him. He'd get off the bus and look through the phone book, find a pastor, go to that church, knock on the door, and say, Hello, the Lord sent me here to run a revival."
 He'd run a revival and raise some more money, and he'd go to the next place. And he'd do that in the summer and then come back home. And when he was running a revival up in San Francisco, he ran up on his church, and he went in there, and he saw my mother. And my mother was only 16 years old. And he said, Lord, if that's my wife, when I go over her house, if the house is clean, I'm going to marry her. Laughter
 The rest is history, obviously the house must have been clean. So they married and he would do the same. He went to serve in the Korean War and came back and continued that regimen running revivals. And mom got pregnant while he was on the evangelistic field and it was here in Portland. And he said that evangelists and the pregnant wife should not be on the road traveling. So he settled here in Portland. And hence he would always say, why did I stay here? As hard as he worked...
 He tried to get a church here and we all know about Portland's history. They had redlining in banks. They wouldn't give him a loan. So he got an ice house on Northeast 10th and Beach. It's now a predominant neighborhood called Irving, but back then it was just a little motley community. And got that ice house and converted it into a little mission church. And he would say, why am I here? If I was in another predominant city, we'd be further ahead. And
 Every summer he would pitch a tent and put it up for 30 days. It's called Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard now, but it was Union. And that's where the winos and alcoholics and prostitutes would hang out and African Americans would be. And he'd put that tent up for 30 days in the summer and preach and try to reel in and save and salvage souls. And again, he would say, why did the Lord send me here? It was even so bad when we grew up as kids, I wondered if my dad was going to go to jail someday.
 Just because for him to get a better home that would house six kids, the bank wouldn't loan him money for whatever reason. We may know, but he struck a deal with an Italian family in southeast Portland, and they said, under the table, we'll sell you this house on contract. And me not knowing law, I just figured if it's under the table, maybe any day they'd take my dad to jail just because he bought a bigger house.
 I later learned that that's just how you do business, you know, when you can't find a way, God blesses a way. So he moves into that house and as he's raising the six kids in a predominantly Italian community,
 He says to himself, why am I staying here? It's hard to find cultural diversity and it's hard to make it. It's hard to navigate. It's difficult. He was the first African-American preacher on KATU Channel 2 television and he closed it out. You remember when TV would go off and the bugs would start? He was the last man before the American flag came waving out there.
 He'd only have two minutes, but he would say those prayers in a meditative word, and he was always careful. He didn't just preach Jesus. He would talk about God because there were some faiths that just believed in God but not Jesus, and he would always be careful. And he would say, I don't know why I settled in this place, but today I think the answer is here. When I look and see a community such as this that has come together against...
 denominations and racisms and races. When I look at my daughter and her friends who, if they would stand, who come all the way from Jesuit high school, stand.
 different nationalities. When I come before a city council, that heart is in the right place. They don't just give lip service to services, housing department, a parks bureau. When I come before you and express the needs of those young people that needed to have work and the monies, and it was a dire time, but you heard that message. And rather than
 funds, necessary funds to those youth. And when I see you in the community and hear the things you're doing, I realize the reason that God allowed my father to be here.
 It's because he wanted me to see that God truly has a plan for humanity of bringing us all together. And if you stay the course, times change. And you ask that question, is it better for blacks now? We may not be where we want to be. But if we look around, we can say by God, it surely is better than what it used to be. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Comments from my colleagues here. Thank you.
 Well, let me begin by, please. Can I just? Oh, please. I'm sorry. My father passed in 2013, and ever since then, 2003, and ever since then, in his place, I've always had, and I'm grateful to have him here, and I wanted to make mention, my Uncle Rupert, who's here when I need a word of counsel. He's my silent rock. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Well, Mayor, I want to begin by thanking Senator Gordly and Roy Jay for working with us to organize this tribute. They are two wonderful community leaders, and when the call went out, they answered it. And everyone they invited accepted. And the truth is, Pastor Hardy, we could extend this event another six hours and not hear from all the people that wanted to speak. Thank you.
 But I'd like to begin by offering my deep, felt thanks to Avel and Roy for helping to organize this event. I'd like to thank the Highland Christian Center family, the choir, the elders, the parishioners, and all who came out today to participate in this celebration. Can we give the Highland family a round of applause? I'd like to acknowledge all our honored guests. You know, it's like having an All-Star Day here in Portland.
 And so we thank everybody that took time out of their busy lives to come and share personal reflections about their great friend and mentor and colleague, Pastor Hardy and his family. And you do great honor to this body to share your stories with us today. I want to thank my colleagues for agreeing to host this event. This is this I think, Mayor, is an unprecedented event. And I've been trying to think of another time when the council.
 extended an honor like this. Perhaps the closest I can think of is in recent history is when the community gathered to thank Charles Jordan and to place his name above a community center in northeast Portland. But this is extremely rare and that is befitting of someone who is so unique in our community.
 I want to close with one of my favorite quotes. It's a quote that George Hawker and I love together, and it was stated by another pastor you may have heard of. Dr. King once said, and I'll quote, everybody can be great because everybody can serve. You don't have to have a college degree to serve. You don't have to make your subject and your verb agree to serve. You only need a heart full of grace and a soul generated by love.
 So I was thinking about the pairings that we've heard about tonight, about Will and Allie, about 76th and Gleason, about church and state, about beloved and community, about servant and leadership. And as Dr. King would say, the greatest perhaps marriage of all, about grace and love. And Will, you embody to the depth of your being this notion of grace and love.
 and you honor us today with your presence, and I'm honored to be part of this ceremony. Thank you. Well, let me add to that pairing engineer and tri-medt.
 Before you found that calling with God, I think even maybe while you had that calling for God, I know you worked for TriMet, and I know you had a background as an engineer, and as somebody who was also educated as an engineer, I've always felt that certain bond. And my admiration for you has increased so much more because you've come so far. And I'm certainly proud of you and everything you've done for the city. And I just have a few...
 vivid memories that I want to share that I know I shared with you. When I was on this council, we led the effort to rename Portland Boulevard to Rosa Parks Way. And I think as my colleagues know, street renamings are never easy in this city. And this was no exception. But the African American ministry was there from the start. But Pastor Hardy was always the one that said,
 If you need me to go meet with some group of people, and we took him up on that. He was always there. I think, like, as Reverend Bethel said, you could always count on Pastor Hardy to be there. And he was the front line of the effort to rename Portland Boulevard to what it is now, Rosa Parks Way. So thank you for that. When I was the police commissioner, hard to say, hard to believe, but we had what seemed like then a bad gang problem.
 kind of pales in comparison to what we're seeing right now, but it was bad, and as police commissioner, I'm always trying to figure out what we can be doing for these youth, and as somebody who cares very much about youth having things to do, constructive things to do, I went and sought Pastor Hardy's counsel and went out there and met with him, and he helped even facilitate some meetings with some of the youth in his church to have a chance to better get inside their heads, which is always challenging when the
 the distance of age is so great. And I remember you telling me that, you know, to always to look up in the balcony of your church, just like I kind of look up in the balcony today. And I think about how you would tell me that, you know, you're getting through to some of these kids and they'll show up, but you know, they're not going to come to the main floor and they'll be in the periphery of the balcony. And I remember looking up and observing them and when I've attended your services and
 i guess my final memory is is as i've attended your services from time to time i've always been so profoundly impressed with your call on men to be fathers and you are unabashed unashamed about doing that and i know that's not always politically correct to do i know in your service you would always
 Ask all the men who are fathers to come up on stage and be blessed and be prayed for. And I really appreciate that about you, too. So it's been a real pleasure. And I look forward to my continued relationship with you. And I thank you for all you've done for us. And you, too, Mrs. Hardy. Pastor Hardy, first, I just wanted to thank you and everyone here for spending this time with us. Thank you.
 any event that combines the quiet dignity of Evel Gordly and the flamboyance of Roy Jay is by definition a blessed and wonderful event that in this case reflects a blessed and wonderful man. So thank you, and thank all of you. And I also wanted to say that part of your role, of course, is to hold us accountable and just want to say that when we screw up, as we will,
 and you hold us accountable as you do to follow in what your sister said, we will thank you for the spanking. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, how great that we are all here today. And thank you, Pastor Hardy, for being willing to do this. You're such a humble man, and yet you have agreed to come and let us thank you in public. And it's a blessing for each one of us, I know. Thank you to everybody who came. What a wonderful place in our city hall to be celebrating our pastor. And Mayor Adams gave you the Spirit of Portland Award in 2011. And under Mayor Adams, we really pioneered that.
 what do we mean by separation of church and state and why should they be so separate? That they are doing good things for people in need. So that's a joint venture that we need to work together on and I have really appreciated your partnership on that. I very much appreciate Highland Christian Center and all of you who work so hard there and care for people there. I know you care for formerly incarcerated people. I'm a formerly British person.
 And in Britain they would call your church a happy clappy church. It is a happy clappy church and it's a wonderful place to come and celebrate. I came first, I was told, well, when I was first campaigning you need to go to Highland Church and that's part of what you do as a political candidate. And you welcomed me there and I promised that I would come back when I was not a candidate and I did. And I always felt very welcome. You know, I'm also a former nurse.
 Nurses are beloved. I'm now a politician. We're worse than tax collectors. LAUGHTER
 And yet you always made me feel like I was a friend and somebody who was welcome at your church and in your heart and in your lives. And so I thank all of you at Highland Christian. I thank Mrs. Harding Sr. that what a fine man that you birthed and raised with your husband. And thank you to Mrs. Harding Jr. for being there for him all the way and for agreeing to do this ceremony with us. What a partnership you have been. And when one is...
 in a high profile position and one not, I don't think people recognize how much the partnership matters and needs to be strong.
 so this has been definitely a celebration and i'm very very happy to do that i would encourage each one of you um when my husband died a little over eight months ago we had a wonderful celebration in terry front plaza where we had more than two hours of people coming uh taking the microphone and talking about what he or i had meant to them and if you didn't get a chance to speak today i encourage you to do that
 now, do that today, because we don't know, any of us, how long we have left. And so it can be really helpful. And so I want to say, I love you. I really appreciate what you do for our community and what you have done for me. And I hope that each one of us will grasp the day. We can't change the past. We can only change the present with the hope of changing the future. And so in the present today, thank you.
 Our mayor will have the last word, but I seek humble forgiveness. I neglected to acknowledge the work of Jenny Kalis, who did all the staff work organizing this event. So can we give Jenny a round of applause? Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Well, the only thing more dangerous than multiple pastors with a microphone is multiple elected officials, but I will match my colleagues in brevity and also with love because that's why we're here. And we won't match the eloquence of what we heard from community leaders here today. And thank you all for expressing the love we all feel for you and your family and your mission in our city today.
 Nick said this was a unique event and I was reflecting on that while I was listening to each of you. And it is a unique event and it's also a unique spirit that's in this room today.
 I look around this room at a lot of community leaders who, like me, in one capacity or another, have spent a lot of time in this room. In my case, about 12 years where I have to show up every week, but also before that as a citizen and as an activist and as a leader in the community, as I see, again, so many around this room, pastors, elected officials, and community leaders. And...
 And people maybe who don't participate in the process sometimes think that government is a bloodless business with no emotion involved. But, of course, anybody who spent any amount of time in this room would realize that's not the case. And there sometimes is a prevailing emotion in the room. Sometimes it's contentiousness where we are divided as a community, right?
 Name that street. Don't name that street. Put fluoride in my water. Please don't put fluoride in my water. Approve that thing. Don't approve that thing. We have division and contentiousness as the prevailing wind in this room sometimes. Sometimes we have maybe not confusion, but at least consternation. This is a complicated problem. We can't seem to find a solution. We work so hard at housing, and there's still homeless people.
 And there's a prevailing spirit of puzzlement and confusion and consternation in the room. And I've felt that often on those issues. And then sometimes there's consensus, where in sweet reason we come together and say, the community and the council, we agree this is the right thing to do. In fact, we did that, I was so proud of this council and this community last week, we did that because we've been blessed as a city
 with some prosperity that rains down into our budget and this council, urged by a lot of people in this room, invested a couple million dollars in making our community centers free for kids. And that was a sweet moment of consensus where everybody said, that's the right thing to do. And so there really often is an emotion in this room. Again, sometimes it's almost an ugly one, sometimes it's beautiful.
 This is the first time in all the times I've been in this room, in whatever capacity, where I'd say it's so clear there's one emotion in this room, and it's gratitude. We love this man. We're grateful for you and your mission. We're grateful for what your family has sacrificed for you to carry out that mission. And you have inspired and do inspire us to be better as a city today.
 And that's a great gift. Thank you so much. We'll take a brief break, and others can thank you personally. Thank you all so much for coming today.
 in action. We're going to move from one source of pride and joy to another here, from a guy who's a pride and joy of our city as a community leader to a set of relationships with our sisters that are prides and joys for all of us involved. So we're looking forward to this report very much. Would you read the next item, please? Thank you.
 Item 574, accept the 2015 annual report on sister city activities. Welcome, gentlemen, to kick this presentation off. Thank you very much for being here today. And it was just great to have our sister cities represented in the building earlier today with our reception, part of the Rose Festival fun. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Hector Miramontes, Director of International Relations for the City of Portland.
 Among my responsibilities, I work with Portland's nine sister city associations and our one Friendship City Association. This is a committed group of volunteers who together put on an incredible variety of activities and events every year that support our engagement with the international community.
 As you mentioned, Mayor, earlier today the group of Sister City Association leaders put on the fourth annual Sister City reception for visiting Sister City guests, international dignitaries, consuls generals, and other international leaders based in Portland.
 So this is my second time speaking before the council, and I would like to thank you, mayors and commissioners, for this opportunity. Today we'd like to use our time to have Portland's Sister City Association leaders speak to the council on their respective Sister City Associations, providing a brief annual report on activities carried out in the course of the previous year.
 And before I invite my colleagues to speak, I would like to provide some background on the Sister City program. Portland's nine Sister Cities are members of Sister Cities International, a national nonprofit program that was initiated by the Eisenhower administration in 1959 with the purpose of working to foster an international atmosphere of understanding and respect. Just briefly.
 Portland also has one active Friendship City relationship with Utrecht, the Netherlands, and we just happen to have a representative here in the council, Mr. Sockers, here in the audience.
 This friendship designation is a provisional status before becoming a sister city. And I would like to point out that in spite of the provisional status, our relationship with Utrecht is defined by productive exchanges in business, education, government, and beyond. And they're certainly doing that during their visit.
 So each of Portland's nine sister cities and our one friendship city bring real benefits to our city and the metropolitan area. They contribute to and enhance Portland's engagement with the international community, helping us promote cultural and educational exchanges, and fostering global economic ties. It's an honor to work with such a committed group of people.
 So I would now like to invite my colleague, Mr. James Autry, President of the Portland Ashkelon Sister City Association, to start us off with the Association's Annual Report. Thank you. Welcome. Well, thank you for allowing us to be here again and to present our Annual Reports. I am James Autry. My full-time job is my company runs two non-profits here in the Portland metro area, the Christian Chamber of Commerce of the Northwest. We've been meeting for about seven years, 13 meetings. I've done over 1,000 meetings in the last five years. Thank you.
 and then I have another nonprofit called Serving Our Neighbors that's been engaging with the pastors that were in this room over the last years as well as the community with the Plough Association and so forth, just encouraging people to show up. So we are proud to sponsor the Rose City Reception that we do, and I was the chair for that today, and it's just a blast. I love setting that platform together and hosting the folks together and kind of coordinating all the things behind the scenes. So it was deeply a great honor to do that today.
 Portland Ashkelon Sister City Association has been around for 27 years. We are actually coming up on 28 years now. It's a growing Israeli city. It's one of the largest ones as far as area land. It's 38,300 citizens now. It's home to one of the largest desalination plants, Israeli beer breweries.
 as well as some of the most creative young entrepreneurs. I love the fact that Ashkelon Israel is right there where the Intel plants are, Microsoft, a lot of technologies, biotechnologies come out of that particular district in that community, as well as environmental breakthroughs and medical breakthroughs. So there's lots of incredible things happening in Ashkelon. They are building a brand-new city hall that should be opening in 2008.
 And then has lots of parks and a lot of similarities between Portland and Ashkelon. It's steeped in history. It's over 5,000 years old, ancient biblical city.
 And then 25% of the residents of Ashkelon are under 18. And so they have 27,000 students in preschool and grade school, and 5,500 students that are actually attending Ashkelon College. And so they have a unique program developed for all of these young folks, and their school system prides itself on quality and excellence education.
 And so it's a very high-tech area. They have a new area that's 198 acres that's being built in the north part of the city. And so there's lots of expansion going on in Ashkelon.
 This last year we also helped coordinate the reception and so our focus for our local efforts here is I am the new president and I've been rebuilding the infrastructure for Ashkelon Portland relationships. We have a brand new mayor in Ashkelon so we're working with him and partnering with him in various ways and his name is Itamar Shimoni.
 And this is the new city hall that's being built currently. And so it's just an amazing partnership there that I'm looking forward to rebuilding and reestablishing. It was kind of silent for a little bit and off and on here and there, struggling for leadership. But over the last three or four years, because of my work with the Christian Chamber and serving our neighbors, there's now loss of interest. I've found various community leaders, like some of the ones that were in this room earlier,
 to connect and to partner in that way. And so we have some events that we're planning for this year as well to honor our local rabbis, Zuckeman, and then we will be focusing in on some summer activities to raise continued funding. So I'm excited about what Ascalon's been doing and the Portland Ascalon Sister City Association and looking forward to a very bright future. So thanks again. Thank you. Thanks for the good work. Thanks. Thanks.
 Okay, who's next? I think Alan, you're next. Bologna? Oh, it's Bologna. I'm sorry. Bologna's next? Okay. Keeping alphabetical order here? We're doing the alphabetical order.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Philip Testio, and I am the president of the Portland Bologna Sister City Association. We have been celebrating our 10th anniversary this year, and that brought a nice delegation from Bologna to visit us last summer, last June, for Rose Festival. We had 10 people from various aspects of Bologna, the government,
 industry, also food and wine. And they came and enjoyed themselves. They had an incredible little setup where they set up a Casa Bologna in the park blocks at an apartment there. They rented it for a couple weeks, and we had numerous activities there, presentations, festivities. It was really quite wonderful.
 Part of their delegation to us was a group of three startup companies.
 representatives from those companies, and they established incredible contacts with the Portland community. It was lovely that they were so well matched with what goes on in Portland. These people were actually winners of a contest in Bologna to be able to travel here and take part, and those have already paid off. Those contacts we've made have already paid off in a number of ways, including,
 We also sent a delegation for our 10th anniversary to Bologna. If you can see the slide that is there now, the October 2014 delegation went and coincided with the 70th anniversary of the Linea Gothica, which they call in Italy the Gothic line,
 And that was a time when American soldiers stood outside of Bologna for almost a year, waiting to enter it and to liberate the people there. My Uncle Joe, a Portland resident, a long-time Portland resident, and graduate of Franklin High School and University of Portland, was one of those soldiers. So it meant a lot for me to be able to go there and to help that celebration.
 We also had a symposium with regional governments that Bologna put together for us.
 This was fascinating. We saw all these small communities outside of Bologna that are very interested in the relationship with Portland. And when we were in Pianoro, which is what the slide is now, I stressed that Portland and our region have a great willingness to work with them. And they were very excited to hear about that.
 I hope that our relationships will continue to extend our contacts, but also we can reap the bounty of that beautiful region surrounding Bologna.
 The startups actually also were presented in front of the council in Bologna, and there was a group of about 300 people jammed into a beautiful sala in the Palazzo Comunale in Bologna, hearing stories.
 the extolled virtues of Portland. It was pretty unbelievable. We sat there, and Portland never looked so good. They took slides of their visit here, and each of them talked about their experiences with contacting other like businesses here, but also just their love for Portland. It was incredible, and it just really filled the room, and I was really happy to have the opportunity to be there.
 This year also is the year that we send our youth exchange to Bologna. And we have nine high school students from the Portland area, including our first students ever from Franklin High School, Jefferson High School, and Health and Sciences in Beaverton. We also were able to give our first full scholarship to someone to go to Bologna for 15 days.
 And they will be leaving in two weeks, and we'll be spending two weeks, and I can't wait for them to come back and tell us of their visit. They're very excited. We met with them. They're wonderful ambassadors for the city of Portland, and I'm quite proud to be connected with them and have them go in our presence.
 as our representatives. So thank you very much, and thank you, Council, for giving us this opportunity every year to touch base with you. Know that we appreciate the exposure, but also that we appreciate your connections with us too. So thank you very much. When is the next official delegation trip to Bologna? I would love to be able to tell you that, but we don't know at this time. But whenever you're ready.
 The last one was Commissioner Novick. I was going to say that actually Commissioner Novick was there, and I talked to him briefly about it before, and I was really happy that he had a chance to go and share.
 She seemed to like it a lot, so that's great. My wife and I had a wonderful time there, and Francesca Martinez with the city gave us a fantastic tour of City Hall. And I want all of the viewers of Cable Access to know that if you're going to Bologna, the pumpkin tortellini at Cera Unibolda is not to be missed. Okay. Perfect. The food there is wonderful. By the way, there's one other connection between Portland and Italy, which is not as well-known.
 which is there's a Portland couple, two women who are married that have two children, who are in a case that's working its way to the highest court in Italy today.
 to establish the rights of their children to dual citizenship. Wonderful. And because it's a same-sex marriage and because of some other legal complications, it has not been worked out. So a Portland couple is actually going to set the precedent in Italy for the rights of children of same-sex couples where there is a dual citizenship opportunity. That's fantastic. Thank you for bringing that up. Good. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. All right. Welcome.
 Good afternoon. I'm Stephanie Lamberson. I'm the president of the Portland Guadalajara Sister City Association. It's a pleasure to be here again with you all. I'm just going to get right to what we've been up to. We've been a busy bunch. First off, I'm so proud of our Bombero program that we are able to purchase some CPR mannequins this year. And we're
 in order to train and certify people in Spanish and in English. So far, we kick-started that at our last event, at the Cinco de Mayo event, and we were able to certify 136 people in CPR. Forty-two of those were Spanish-speaking.
 We are also, through that program, procure 143 self-contained breathing apparatuses, air packs, from a private donor in Washington that has been donated all throughout Latin America. So we're really proud of those life-saving devices. Thank you.
 In addition to that, one of our executive board members is also a Portland firefighter, Jose Troncoso, and we send him to Guadalajara on a semi-regular basis to do training with the bomb barrel program there in Guadalajara, as well as hosting firefighters from Guadalajara to come to Portland and learn the life-saving techniques that have helped them.
 As well as sending Jose to Guadalajara, we were able to send a couple of other board members
 to Guadalajara this last year. They met with the Director of International Relations and the Executive Director of the International Book Fair. That takes place in Guadalajara annually. They are the largest book fair in Latin America. We were there to kind of plant the seed for a long-term plan to have Oregon as the guest of honor at this event, which would open up international business opportunities.
 Here locally, we've been working with Portland Literary Arts to bring Latin American authors to the Portland's Woodstock event. So some of these funds that we're raising, we've been able to adopt an autism school in Guadalajara. And here locally, we have adopted a pre-K albina Head Start program where we've donated toys at holiday time and purchased bilingual books for the classroom.
 Our funding has also supported Habitat for Humanity, Snowcap Charitable Services, and Miracle Theater Company. PGSEA helped fund Girl Scouts of Oregon's World Thinking Day. We provided a workshop on history and traditions of Mexican cuisine.
 Now, all that funding came from the hard work and efforts of our board through our Cinco de Mayo Fiesta. This year, our event, just tying up the bows with it now, we welcomed about 80,000 people to Waterfront Park. We had the mariachis from Guadalajara, ballet folklorico, lucha libre, authentic food, music, and artisans to our city.
 We were honored to have Mayor Hales as our keynote speaker at our annual naturalization ceremony this year, and also our Royal Rosarians. We really appreciate everybody's efforts. This year we welcomed 49 new citizens from all over the world. Also at our Cinco de Mayo event, we offer a student assembly that we treat over 1,300 schoolchildren to a special performance on the Cinco de Mayo stage.
 And we held this year the Guinness World Record for largest gathering of people wearing sombreros. For two days. Because right after we broke the record, which was our own record, two days later at an LA Angels baseball stadium, which they're known for crushing people's records, beat us by a mere 19,000 people wearing sombreros. So, yeah.
 We held it for a couple days. So we're taking suggestions on what kind of world record to break at our Cinco de Mayo event next year.
 Get your thinking caps on. Might have to be food related. Maybe. Wearing sombreros, eating burritos, doing something. Yeah. Thank you for having us today. Thank you. Yeah, the naturalization ceremony is a wonderful tradition. It's great. Thank you. It was such an honor to have you there. And the citizens, the new citizens were just, they couldn't believe it, that they're welcome to our city. What? The mayor is going to be welcoming? It was just really special. So thank you for being a part of it. Thank you.
 That's great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to Mayor Hales and the members of the City Council. My name is Rob Hungerford, and most of you know me from a lot of different hats that I wear, the Rosarians or AFSCME and different things, but I'm also privileged to serve as a board member of the Portland-Gauchung Sister City Association. And since that's a little bit of a mouthful, I'm just going to call them the PKSCA through this. Thank you.
 So the mission of the PKSCA is to promote people-to-people exchanges of educational, artistic, and cultural activities in accordance with the spirit of the Sister City International Program and to promote Portland and Kaohsiung to the world.
 So some of the highlights of the PKSCA this past year include our goodwill delegations, both to and from Kaohsiung. So each year a delegation from Portland visits Kaohsiung for several days during the Lantern Festival. And we try to know when that is, but sometimes the dates move, as we experienced this last year. But we did have a great delegation go there. And then each June an official delegation from the city of Kaohsiung comes to visit Portland for the Rose Festival.
 Our 2015 Portland delegation was made up of city officials, civic leaders. We were privileged to have the Rose Festival Queen with us, the president of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation, and Prime Minister of the Rose, Rosarians, and many members of the PKSC board.
 Later this evening, the City of Portland and the PKSCA Board will greet a delegation of over 30 arriving from Kaohsiung City. This delegation is made up of members of the Kaohsiung City Council, the Kaohsiung City government, and civic leaders. And these visits provide first-hand contact among civic and business and government leaders and increase the understanding of each other's city.
 And as we found out, did you know that now you can get your voodoo donut fix for your maple bar covered in bacon in Taiwan? So when you go there, you can stop in. Strange but true. That's right. Yes, voodoo donuts. Another program that we have is the host family program for students coming from Kaohsiung's Shuta High School.
 And so yesterday, a delegation of over 70 students and staff arrived from Shuda, and they are now with their host families from across the Portland area being provided an American home experience. And these are extremely talented musicians and dancers. They're going to stay here for about a week. They'll be participating in the Rose Parade, and we'll have a marvelous performance Monday night at David Douglas High School.
 For them, this is a wonderful firsthand experience, experiencing the culture of the city of Portland. PKSCA is very proud that this year for the Rose Festival, we have 100 delegates coming from Kaohsiung.
 Another program that we have is our participation in the Grand Floral Parade. And so each year since 1989, Portland and Kaohsiung have jointly sponsored a beautiful and often prize-winning float in the Grand Floral Parade. And this year is no exception, and the float will be accompanied by music and dance groups from the Shuda High School.
 Another activity that we have is the dragon boat racing, and that's going on right now, of course. And this is an annual cultural event hosted by the PKSCA that is held in early June of each year and is a sanctioned Rose Festival event. This year's race features 60 teams from all over the world, and they race in our very unique Taiwan-style dragon boats over two days of racing.
 So Mayor Hales and the members of the City Council, the PKSCA wants to thank you for your continued support of our association and its mission in the sister cities. Thank you. Thanks very much. We'll see you Saturday morning at the Dragon Boats. Yes. Well, I'll be split. I'll be over at the Coronation. Yes. So will I. Thank you. Thanks. Hello. My name is Alan Ellis, and I'm here to talk about the Portland-Cabado Sister City Association.
 And I get two questions right off the bat. How do you pronounce that Russian sister city, and where is it located? And the KH, the beginning of Khabarovsk, is a kh sound. And the stress is on the middle syllable, so it ends up Khabarovsk. And it's named after an explorer named Khabarov. And where it's located, you have a handout. And you can see at the top, there's a logo.
 Sister City logo, and there are two red dots. One red dot is where Portland, Oregon is. Oh, there it is, where Oregon is located. And the other red dot is where Khabarovsk is located, you know, separated by the Pacific Ocean. They're on basically the same parallel, but the climates are quite different. It gets much colder there and much more humid there in the summer, right?
 But like Portland, there is a major river that flows into right next to Khabarovsk, and that is the Amur, and you see that indicated there. And it forms the border between China and Russia and right above Manchuria. The people in this part of Russia don't like to be called Siberia. They like to be called the Russian Far East. Thank you.
 And Chubotisk is a regional capital. It's a regional political, educational, and cultural center.
 And also a lot of good music comes out of there. We've had a jazz bridge exchange, and we're bringing over in November 8th, we're going to have our Bridge to Russia Gala, celebrating 27 years of the partnership at VD Bohème in southeast Portland. And we're having the debut of one of the most popular soft rock groups coming over from Khabarovsk. So that will be a lot of fun.
 Last year, a delegation came here. We had just visited Khabarovsk last May at the height of the Ukrainian crisis. And it was a little problematic at the time. And yet when we got there, everything was – we had tremendous hospitality. And then we brought the group over here.
 And what it shows is that all of our sister cities have the ability over the years to bridge the political, cultural gaps, and even sometimes transcend international disputes. These people-to-people programs really do a lot of good and really pave the road for commercial and diplomatic ties later on down the road. Okay.
 We have a number of programs. We're going to be bringing over a group of students from Khabarovsk in the fall, and they are going to be hosted by Franklin High School students. At Franklin High School, we have a Russian language program.
 And then that group of Franklin High School students is going over in the spring. And this is a renewal of a very successful educational exchange, homestay exchange, with the same school, Gymnasium No. 5, back in the 90s with Lincoln High School. So we're really happy about that. We're also...
 We also have the Oregon Historical Society that is partnering with the Khabarovsk City History Museum, and they may have an exchange of employees pretty soon. Radio Sports, Ham Radio, big thing, first joint project we had with Khabarovsk, and that's going to also pick up. And we also do a number of activities.
 And one of which we had at Kochka, the Russian restaurant in town, for International Women's Day. On the beginning of May, we celebrated Victory Day, which is a huge holiday over there, celebrates the victory over Hitler. Now, wait a second. You had an event at Kochka?
 Yeah. How did we miss that event? Hey. How do we – you know, I – just a quick aside. It was on the 9th of May, I believe. The International Women's Day is the 8th of May, and we had that on Sunday, I believe, at Koch. We'll never forgive Martha Pellegrino for losing that invitation. Okay. And by the way, I went there recently, and you know that menu and the long list of vodkas? Yes, yes. And I said, I can't possibly choose a vodka here. What do you recommend?
 The person recommended a Portland vodka. Wow, how about that? And a lot of Portland vodka. Very diplomatic. Next time you do Kachka, would you please let us know? So, yeah, our most recent one was Victory Day at...
 celebrating the commemoration of the victory over Hitler, and 20 million died, and they still remember being allies with the United States, and that's a real continuing positive thing.
 And we are also promoting a summer festival at Lewis and Clark College, sponsored by Portland Piano International. And that is going to be from 18th to the 21st. And they are focusing on a Soviet, a very famous Soviet pianist and his compositions, named Svyatoslav Richter. And they have world-class pianists coming to town for that.
 So I hope someday you can come to – some of you will be able to go to Khabarovsk and experience the hospitality there. And despite all the problems we have, our countries have now over the Ukraine, things are very positive and beneficial for both cities because of this relationship. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is Chido Liwayo, and I am a board member of the Portland Mutare Sister City Association. Despite being granted political asylum, I'm truly appreciative for the relationship that Portland has with Mutare Zimbabwe. Portland Mutare Sister City Association's
 The goal is to shrink the distance from Africa to Portland. We want to build bilateral trust and personal relationships. That being said, Zimbabwe is a country with political tension. The economy is in tatters, and the HIV rate is still high, though it has dropped 10% in the last decade.
 Zimbabwe's life expectancy is 39, and the health and education system has imploded. Women have really become the backbone of the economy and are getting some foreign assistance thanks to people like us. Annually, we hold a fundraiser on December 1, World AIDS Day, and with this money that we're able to fundraise, we...
 work on various projects and this past year we focused on three. One of them is with the St. Warburg School, which is a relationship we've built, we've had with them for over a decade now. We've supported children's school fees, who wouldn't have been able to afford, as well as critically needed custodial and staffing needs for the St. Warburg School. It just opened this January and
 as they were busy enrolling and making sure that all the needed resources were there, and things were really looking up, and we had a little over 1,000 students by the end of January who started this program.
 Our second project we've been working on was with Island Hospice, which was the first hospice in Africa, which was established in 1971. We helped fund the acquisition of commodes and other basic custodial care needs as we support terminally ill patients. The third project we're working on,
 we've worked on this past year is with an organization called Zewi, which means deaf and is a school for...
 the hearing impaired. We help fund materials and training for deaf women at this school in Watare. And what these women are able to do is use patterns to make sanitary napkins, which without this, they would not have been able to go to school, because usually this problem of sanitary was number one reason why girls are absent during school term in the region.
 Just in closing, I wanted to say that the world looks at Zimbabwe and despairs. As a sister city, we work directly with our neighbors in Watari and are full of hope and bolstered by their hard work, determination, and accomplishments in the face of unbelievable challenges. So thank you for this opportunity. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Konnichiwa.
 I am Bacon Michael, the president of the Port of Sapporo Shimae City Church.
 Good afternoon. My name is Michael Bacon. I am the president of the Portland Sapporo Sister City Association. Last year I made the mistake of doing my professional introduction, which I am the, I work for Portland Public Schools in working with all of our language immersion programs. So you'll see some influence of the educational aspects that we have in our piece.
 We were at Portland and Sapporo, our two cities that really are thriving cities that share a tremendous amount of similarities, amazing qualities in terms of bountiful nature, high quality of living, a focus on sustainability.
 Also a high sort of level of culinary and of course beer that is focused there. We as an association really have had three major areas that we focus on for the past year. And first of all is actually our youth exchanges.
 And in this, we actually have three major ones that are currently going on. We have an exchange with the eight city high schools in Sapporo, and every year, this is a picture here, and as you can see, Mayor Hales is greeting and speaking to our
 our delegation of those high school students that came, two from each of the high schools there. And they spent time in host families here, really exchanging with our schools at elementary, middle, and high school, in Portland public schools. And really, I'm getting an opportunity to learn more about the city and its unique aspects as well here in Portland. Thank you.
 We also have a Sapporo Summer Institute, and we are just getting ready to send off nine students from actually Grant High School, who will be spending, I believe it's four weeks total. They're going to school, really engaging in what I call sort of the micro-touring, not getting on a bus and traveling around, but really getting to know the people and places there.
 and the educational system and their peers there in Sapporo.
 And we scholarship our association scholarship students to support them in going to that and participating in that. And there is a third youth exchange, which is one that happens on the Sapporo side as well, where we take university students or college students here in the Portland area who go there to participate bilingually. They actually have to demonstrate a certain level of Japanese proficiency to really participate in exchanging with Sapporo's various students.
 Sister City, students from various Sister Cities of Sapporo, all done in that part of it, all done in Japanese. And they discuss geopolitical, economic, social justice issues, environmental issues as they work together in a summer institute in August. Our picture here that you see, this is not Sapporo. No.
 This is actually the waterfront here in Portland. This is our cherry blossoms. The students who came from the eight city high schools went down to the waterfront we had after our greeting here in City Hall, went down there and happened to have some free time, and this is what resulted. They were quite excited and jubilant to see the falling petals of the cherry blossoms.
 These are really, I mean, in terms of our focus on youth exchanges, having our ambassadors for the city, our junior ambassadors for the city.
 Next up here is one of the major exchanges that we do is every year we host or sponsor with the Northwest Film Center what's called the Sapporo Shorts, and they are very short films that focus on, and it's sort of this competition that occurs within Sapporo, and the directors of that festival come here and meet and part of a reception and a dinner that talk about the festival and the different films that are in that festival. Okay.
 The other major team that we sponsor, a part that we sponsor is our Portland Snow Team. I believe it's been about 18 years running now. And they, we, this team is often sponsored by Columbia Sportswear, Taiheo Cement, and many others in the community. And they try to do things that represent, or sculptures that represent the city or our surrounding areas in Portland.
 Finally, this last year, I have to say, we were very fortunate to be sort of center stage last year in this event. It was our 55th anniversary as one of the oldest sister city associations and relationships here in the United States.
 We were fortunate to be sort of center stage and this room was filled with many of our delegations. We had three major delegations. One was the mayor's, of course. And then secondly, we had the city assembly, a little bit larger than the city assembly or our commissioners here. I believe there was about 30 some of them. So I don't know how they come to consensus, but Japanese are very good at that.
 And finally, we had a very large citizens delegation, about 60 members that were here. And throughout that entire week, lots of opportunities to exchange in multiple levels. They were even there. They had bags and were going and cleaning up items.
 on the parade route as it ended, as part of their volunteer work here in Portland. Michael, can I just observe? Yes. This was one of the harder assignments I've ever had to fulfill. Was drinking sake up in the Japanese garden? Mayor Hales couldn't attend the dinner, so he asked me to stand in for him, and the
 The gentleman in the white jacket is the mayor of Sapporo. He travels with a translator, a young woman from Oregon, who was bilingual in school and now is the permanent translator for the mayor. And of course, the dinner, the mayor disclosed to us that one of the great cultural events of his lifetime was a Leonard Bernstein concert, where Leonard Bernstein and the Philharmonic came to Sapporo.
 and he also revealed to us that one of the great treasures of his country is a Isamu Noguchi park that is the centerpiece of their park system and one of the masterworks of Noguchi. And as he was describing this, I mean, his face lit up, and it was an amazing evening. And the food was pretty good, too. Food was awesome. And Naoko, who is a...
 well-known chef now here in the Portland area. And the other thing that was very distinct about that evening, as I remember, there was some discussion about the new streetcar that's going into place, that went into place in Sapporo, and discussing whether a streetcar made here in Portland could become some part of the deal some day down the road. Correct? Is that right, Nick? I think I remember that. I have to always say yes to Michael. He's my next-door neighbor, so I can't publicly disagree with him.
 So in closing, as an educator, I always am keen about giving homework. So I brought each of you our actual full-on report, all done in Japanese for the most part. And Mayor Hales, I have to say your Japanese is quite good in here. And there are pictures, I think, of almost all of you in here. So I will leave a copy of that. It has, as the Japanese are very good in meticulous detail orientation, this has all 55 years history included in here. So you can...
 peruse that. It may be a picture book for some of you, but you can take a look at that. We thank you for all your support and look forward to our 60th anniversary coming up in four years. Thank you very much.
 Well, that's tough to follow. So good afternoon. I'm Kathy Chin, president of Portland Sioux Justice City Association. And may I ask the commissioners, thank you for the opportunity of reporting to you on the accomplishment of the Portland Sioux Justice City Association over this past year.
 In carrying out our mission of facilitating cultural education and economic exchanges between Portland and Suzhou, China, Suzhou is about an hour and a half of car ride from Shanghai, west of Shanghai, or half an hour of fast train to go to Shanghai. So it's pretty close.
 So over the last year, we had a few major items that we did. So we have the 2014 Leadership Awards at the July Evening Under the Stars Gala, which is the way that we recognize strong community support by honoring different organizations. So last year, we honored Davis Wright Tremaine for Business Leadership Award, accepted by our board member, Jim May, who is a partner there.
 And for a cultural award, we recognize Portland Center for the Arts Cultural Leadership Award, accepted by Ms. Laurie Kramer. And then the Suzhou Education Bureau for the Education Leadership Award, accepted by Mr. Chen Shuyi, who came from Suzhou to accept this award.
 And then at the same time, last July, we did the Suzhou Week 2014 here in this building on the first floor. I think some of you may remember. So we had Mayor Hales to cut ribbons for us, and he also accepted a donation of 300 books, new books from Suzhou. It's called In Suzhou. Those are children's books.
 And in addition to the books, we had two exhibits happening in City Hall last year. One is called the Majestic Mountains and Simmering Waters, art exhibit by our own board member, Francis Lee, who is a well-known Portland artist.
 And we also had a photography exhibit called Drink in the Beauty of Suzhou by the famous Suzhou photographer, Mr. Jing-Zhang Fu. Then in October last year, we had the Suzhou official delegation that came to visit Portland, who was headed by Mr. Zhao Yulong, who is the vice director of Suzhou People's Congress.
 And there is a picture that was taken during his visit here in City Hall with Mayor Hales. This is a very high-level senior delegation who is with economic development leadership. So our organization organized a Nike campus tour.
 and also organize a We Build Green Cities presentation by Portland Development Commission and host them for a welcome dinner at the University Cup and attended by Mayor Hales and Mrs. Hales as well as quite a few other people. And they came away with very, very good impression of the city of Portland. They loved the clean air.
 and a beautiful natural environment. And they were interested in learning more about our expertise in sustainable development and interested in future follow-up. In fact, our own PDC delegation, who is visiting China now, just happened to visit them, actually it's today, but it's 16 hours ago today, in Suzhou. And I heard reports this morning that their visit went really well.
 and they were happy, and Suzhou really take good care of them during this visit. So there's a lot of future economic development opportunities there. Next, our other piece of major work is working with the schools. So we have the Suzhou Sister School students and teachers exchanges to visit Portland every February during Chinese New Year.
 Our two board members, Kojo Heckam of the Portland Public Schools, the Chinese Immersion Program, and Hongyu Kai of the Skybridge International actively support the Suzhou Sister School visits to Portland every year. And on the airwaves, you will welcome six to eight schools.
 a year. And the Suzhou students and teachers will typically spend a week in Portland getting to know their counterparts in their sister schools. And by spending time in classes, outings, and meals, this sister school exchange visits create good and long-lasting memories for students of both cities and help
 and foster learning and understandings of the two cultures. In fact, Kojo had taken 46 students from Hossford schools to Suzhou in April, I believe in April, and just came back and tonight they're having a student report parties at Hossford tonight.
 So that's just our off-site. And then the last item I want to say is that we're in the middle of preparing for our annual fundraising evening under the Star Scholar next Friday. And this is the event that helped us generate our needed funds to support our work carrying on our mission. We also used this special occasion to strengthen our relations with our sponsors, partners, and community members.
 So we will recognize our leadership award this year, we seep in this year, education awards will have two schools, Hartford Middle School and Cascade Heights, public charter school, and business award, we will recognize Great Chairs America, and cultural award, we're gonna recognize the Lansu Chinese Garden.
 And I want to put in a special perk for the Lansu Chinese Garden, which is a friendship project between Portland and Suzhou, and is celebrating its 15th anniversary this year, and has a very special relationship with the Portland-Suzhou Sister City Association. Our organization's involvement with this garden started long before its construction, and we are very, very appreciative of their ongoing support, allowing us to hold our gala over there at really reasonable cost.
 So in fact, I would like to invite all of you to come attend our garden next Friday at the Lansu Chinese Garden to celebrate the 27 years of excellent relations between Portland and Suzhou as well as to mark this first milestone of the 15 years anniversary of the Lansu Chinese Garden. In addition, I would like to thank you all for the funding for the repair of the pond. Really, really appreciate that. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and council members. I'd like to thank the city for giving all of our sister cities this opportunity to present today. My name is Catherine Morrow. I'm the current president of the Portland Ulsan Sister City Association. Ulsan is in South Korea. Thank you.
 The Portland-Ulsan Sister City Association was established in 1987 for the purpose of promoting bilateral exchange and economic relations between the cities of Portland, Oregon, and Ulsan, South Korea. The Sister City Association grew out of a port-to-port relations between Ulsan and Portland back in 1986 when Hyundai Motors began shipping cars to the United States.
 Later in 1995, Portland State University and the University of Ulsan became sister universities. Today, Ulsan is a rich, global, industrial, metropolitan, ocean port city with approximately 2 million people. It's on the southeastern coast of the Republic of Korea. And it is also a city known as the economic powerhouse of Korea.
 Its robust economy is based on the key industries of shipbuilding, Hyundai automobile manufacturing, oil refinery, and petrochemical manufacturing. They are also embarking on new green energy development. As with many sister city relations, there are similarities between our two cities. For example, as I mentioned, we're similar in population. We also have a similar landscape. Like Portland, Ulsan has a large river that runs through its city center.
 And like Portland, Olson boasts an exceptionally high quality of life that focuses on environmental awareness. Inspired by Portland's beauty, the city of Olson over the past 15 years has actually modeled numerous public projects after Portland. This slide here lists several of those. The Olson Grand Park was inspired by Washington Park and Forest Park. They have a relatively new rose garden called the Rose Valley, inspired after Portland International Test Garden.
 They also have embarked on cleaning up their Tewa River, which was very, very polluted. In the early 1990s, it was declared a contaminated dead river. However, today, the salmon, the heron, and other wildlife have returned to their river. It is now clean enough to swim in. Their mayor has said that he has kind of challenged Portland. If they could clean up their river, then Portland, too, could work on our Willamette River.
 They have green belts and recreational parks that line both banks of the Tewa River. Another similarity is that just as here in Portland we're finishing up construction of our bridge, where we will have light rail going across it, in Ulsan this week they finished construction on their newest bridge. They're celebrating its grand opening, and it is called the Ulsan Harbor Bridge. It is the third longest suspension bridge in the world.
 Activities that the Sister City Association embarks on every year, one being a lot of educational exchange. Each year, about 24 high school students from Olson visit Portland every summer for three weeks. It's a scholarship-funded program for future global leaders, and it's funded by the Hyundai Educational Foundation. Our association right now is preparing to welcome this year's cohort of high school students.
 During their stay, they stay with homestay families, which serve as a laboratory for gaining first-hand experience and knowledge about Portland and American culture, and provides an opportunity for Portlanders to learn about Korea and Ulsan.
 Recently, students from Portland or the greater Portland area are now starting to visit Korea more. I know of some exchange programs operating out of Vancouver, Washington, that often visit Ulsan. And also recently, West Lynn-Athi Creek Middle School is embarked on exchange with Korea, including stopping over and exchanging students in Ulsan.
 Next up is to work on getting some Portland high school students to take part in this. In addition to the student exchanges at the high school level, we also have university student exchanges, university faculty exchanges. And occasionally governmental delegations from OSUN will visit Portland. This past April,
 A district mayor of Ulsan visited. Ulsan is made up of five districts, and one of their district mayors was part of a larger mayor delegation from across Korea that visited the United States, sponsored by the U.S. State Department on a tour.
 This coming year, we're planning to focus on trying to get a Portland delegation together to visit Ulsan. We really want to focus on business and trade opportunities, explore sports exchange. They are big on soccer, and Portland is too, so that's an area we want to try to match up. And also to promote Portland as a tourist destination for Koreans. They have a big international festival, and I think it's perfect that Portland have a presence at their festival. Thank you.
 Our sister city program, I think, has immense opportunities beyond educational and cultural exchanges and those are the things we want to focus on next. Things such as information sharing, collaboration, more partnership, especially on trade and development, economic development, human capacity building as well. Here in Portland, we value both local and global. The sister city program provides a vehicle for connecting these two simultaneously.
 The Sister City Association also greatly appreciates the work of Hector Miramontes and his role in support of international relations, and we also appreciate the pledge that the city has in promoting international relations. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And last but not least. All right. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yes, my name is Greg Raisman, and my day job is working for you guys at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. And I'm on one of my three vacation days right now hosting a delegation from Utrecht. I've really enjoyed becoming partners with Utrecht, the Netherlands organization.
 It really began in 2009 based on a transportation knowledge sharing agreement as we were writing our bicycle plan. And they were building a light rail system that was modeling MAX. When we showed up to do some research, it turned out we had a lot in common. So that began in 2009. 2010 is when we started.
 decided we should start to expand our mission and really build on our base of commonalities. So we have a partnership with the City of Utrecht that we're really growing into many different sectors. Right now, I guess I should start by telling you about Utrecht, which is the fourth largest city in the Netherlands.
 Um, it's about, uh, 300,000 people in like Portland. It's in a period of rapid growth right now. It's, uh, replacing the Utrecht Central State train station, uh, which is the largest train station in the Netherlands. It's, uh, got a one kilometer long roof on this thing that just got completed and 46,000 bike parking spaces. It's, uh, um, kind of a different world. Uh, um, but, uh.
 in a lot of the same sectors that we're in. A lot of things we can learn from them, of course. They're seen as a sustainability leader in Europe. They also are like us in that they have a lot of great universities
 A lot of young people, a lot of creative economy. And so one of the things we're focusing on right now is looking at partnerships with Portland Made, which is a part of our board, and ADX and Made Here PDX, to try to actually have some products going back and forth from our artisan manufacturing sectors.
 The other thing that's happening in Utrecht right now is they're building a human rights commission. So while the delegation has been here, we've met with Portland's Human Rights Commission and are looking at ways of sharing information back and forth and learning from each other about how to address equity and human rights issues in our cities.
 In the Netherlands, there's a lot of similar issues that we have with particularly new arrivals and immigrants and how to make them welcome and integrated inside of our cultures and express theirs within it in a comfortable way. And then the other thing is Travel Portland is a part of our group. And we have a direct flight to Amsterdam.
 We like to take advantage of that as much as possible and also support it because we have so many important businesses in both of our regions, which is why that direct flight is there. Next slide, please.
 So beer is always a good thing. And last year, the Oregon Brewers Festival brought in 10 Dutch brewers. There was a special beer tent for the Dutch brewers. And we established a number of collaborative beers between Portland and Dutch beer makers. And many of them were very delicious. And some of them were drank here and sent back over to the Netherlands later.
 We have six brewers coming back this year. My wife and I are going on vacation, unfortunately, which means I have to give these beer brewers the keys to my house. But I think it'll work out. It's going to be OK. And we also have a documentary that was made last year that we're going to debut during the Oregon Brew Fest. I've seen the trailer so far, and it's gorgeous.
 It was really fun visiting these brewers. And we were lots of different places with these guys. And we wound up in this, like, crawl space with this brewer near Mount Hood. And we have this boom mic. And we're crawling. And there's...
 these beer barrels and it was, yeah, anyway. So memorable experience, I will say that. So we do want to, are in conversations through Travel Portland, through the city of Utrecht, and through Portland's marketing arm in the Netherlands at bringing an Oregon Brewfest to the Netherlands.
 And so we've already begun conversations with international distributors who are bringing right now a whole shipping container of beer from Portland to the Netherlands. We've had some meetings this year, and that's ramping up. They actually can't get enough supply from us is the biggest problem. They're selling it so fast. So we're going to keep building that partnership. And then my last slide,
 is just talking a little bit, we've become really integrated with what's called the Portland Dutch Society, our effort has. So the Portland Dutch Society is a...
 It's been an organization that does more of the cultural events. So King's Day happens every year at Oaks Park. Five hundred people attend. There's music and food, and it's a really nice cultural celebration. And then the Sinterklaas celebration is the Dutch version of Christmas, and he wears a bigger beard than ours and a pointier hat. And it's a pretty fun thing.
 I'd like to share that we're profoundly grateful that the City of Utrecht has sent a delegation to visit us this year. We're seeing it as a way of continuing to build our partnership and relationship and economic ties and academic ties. So we've had meetings with Portland State Partnership Vice President and a number of different organizations. We have...
 Everybody else right now is actually at ADX having a meeting to talk about that makerspace. So I want to introduce Hans Sockers, who's the Director of International Relationships for the City of Utrecht, the Netherlands. So he can say a couple words. I just want to say a very thank you to Hans and to everybody for making the time to come across the ocean and find ways for us to continue to really build upon our relationship. Thank you.
 Welcome back. Yeah, thank you, Greg. I think you gave an excellent update about what is happening. Only a few words from my side. I think I like to express my respect for the way you open up your city and offering the city as a space where all these people come together and can exchange
 Well, that's very special for me to see how it works here and how you have this interest in all these communities and the bridging of these communities in Portland to the rest of the world.
 And earlier this day, you told the audience we are a little global city. I think that we know that small-sized cities as ours are very special places for innovation and creativity and where people can develop themselves as a person but also as a community.
 But beyond this, it's even perhaps or beyond this, there is another challenge that we are starting to connect our cities like you're already doing for so many years with sister cities.
 But for us, it's also the way you're doing it, it's also a learning point to see that a network of little global cities all over the world can give an extra dimension on the potential of our little global cities.
 Well, that's the background of that is so exciting for me to be here and to have all these discussions you prepared so well and that you see that our mission is for people that know the networks in our city very well, who can we match with another person in, so what kind of qualities we can connect and how can we build new bridges where we have the responsibility in our cities to be the laboratories of the 21st century.
 And I think the discussions we had are so...
 given a lot of hope and every time we had new visions again what can happen in cities and it can be about beer but that's of course a very superficial topic but it's opening and many other teams that we can work on together in very different ways and so thank you very much for having us here and we will stay a few days more Alright, well
 Well, thank you. I appreciate you making the trip again and the continued knowledge exchange that you have underway between Utrecht and Portland. It's very healthy for both of us, I think. Thank you. Well, any questions for any of our panelists this afternoon? I appreciate very much the report. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item before we accept it and wish you well? So if not, then I'll take a motion to accept the report. So moved. Seconded.
 And roll call vote to do that, please. Saltzman? Thank you all for the update on your great sister city relationships with us. We appreciate it. Aye. Novick? Thank you all very much. It's great to have these partnerships with cities around the world. And thanks for sticking around for a while because we're a bit off schedule. So really appreciate it. Aye. Fritz?
 thank you each for showing up to give us the detailed report on what you've been doing and for all of your volunteering through throughout the year i don't think people realize that these sister city relationships are all volunteer run with fundraising to make them happen as the immigrant on the council i'm particularly grateful to you for explaining or illustrating that there are many relationships throughout the world that we need to cultivate and that we're all our best
 ourselves when we are citizens of the world as well as citizens of our individual countries. So thank you for being here today to explain about that and share again. Hi. Vish? Thank you, Martha. Thank you, Hector. Thank you to our 10 wonderful sister city partners. And as my colleagues are tired of hearing, my family is moving to Europe next year for a year, so I'll be by myself.
 And I was thinking of how to make full use of that time. And one is I have an empty house, so there's no excuse for not hosting someone when you have someone visiting and you need a bed. Because Lord knows I can't do Airbnb. That would probably violate the charter. And second, special appeal to our friends on Utrecht. I do have some Dutch friends.
 So I'm hoping there's a trip that might come up where you need an extra guest to carry the luggage or do something during the trip. So thank you for your service. This is one of the things that makes this city very special, and we love this report every year. I think Dan thinks this report and the tree report are two of the best that we have. So pleased to vote aye. Hales. Well, thank you to our small but mighty team of staff here in Portland who facilitate all these partnerships and are amazing.
 volunteer corps from all these sister city organizations and the rosarians and the rose festival all working together in cooperation you know this this set of relationships does take maintenance i mean people have to work at it and a lot of people do and and the more that that happens the more positive things i see coming out of this i'm particularly impressed with
 all the different ways that we've given students the chance to participate in exchanges whether it's the the big performing group here from Kaohsiung this week or students from Portland visiting these cities and learning there our kids really are citizens of the world and I've had some really profound experiences on sister city trips myself and probably the most profound was watching a
 the Portland Rose Festival Princess enthrall 4,000 girls at Shuta High School playing her violin. And thank you for a field exhibition that the girls there had put on for us.
 And there's just some real magic to that student-to-student exchange. Obviously, hugely diverse situations of these cities, whether they're working their way out of poverty and problems, as we see with Mutare or, you know, dealing with growth and prosperity in other cases. Rapid growth, obviously, in some cases, Suzhou in particular.
 So it's really a diverse group of cities. We learn a lot from them. I want to encourage my council colleagues, if you get the opportunity, can find the opportunity to go on a sister city trip, please do. I try to do one or two a year. I think it is important for us to participate and it obviously adds
 to the value of the trip when one of us can accompany one of these groups on their trips. So thank you all very much. It's a very important and rich part of our cultural heritage in the city. Thank you for an excellent report. Aye. And we are adjourned until next week. Thank you very much.